name;level;type;ritual;casting_time;casting_time_comment;range;components;components_comment;duration;duration_comment;discription
Acid Splash;0;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You hurl a bubble of acid. C hoose one creature within You hurl a bubble of acid. C hoose one creature within range, or choose two creatures within range that are within 5 feet o f each other. A target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take  1d6 acid damage.This spells damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6),  11th level (3d6), and  17th level (4d6).
Aid;2;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny strip o f white cloth;8 hours;-;Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and resolve. C hoose up to three creatures within range.Each targets hit point maximum and current hit points increase by 5 for the duration.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, a targets hit points increase by an additional 5 for each slot level above 2nd.
Alarm;1;abjuration;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny bell and a piece offine silver wire;8 hours;-;You set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Choose You set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Choose a door, a window, or an area within range that is no larger than a 20-foot cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm alerts you whenever a Tiny or larger creature touches or enters the warded area. W hen you cast the spell, you can designate creatures that w ont set off the alarm. You also choose whether the alarm is mental or audible.A mental alarm alerts you with a ping in your mind if you are within  1  mile of the warded area. This ping awakens you if you are sleeping.An audible alarm produces the sound of a hand bell for 10 seconds within 60 feet.
Alter Self;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You assume a different form. W hen you cast the spell, You assume a different form. W hen you cast the spell, choose one of the following options, the effects of which last for the duration of the spell. W hile the spell lasts,you can end one option as an action to gain the benefits of a different one.Aquatic Adaptation. You adapt your body to an aquatic environment, sprouting gills and growing webbing between your fingers. You can breathe underwater and gain a swim m ing speed equal to your walking speed.Change Appearance. You transform your appearance. You decide what you look like, including your height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, hair length, coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, if any.You can make yourself appear as a m em ber of another race, though none of your statistics change. You also cant appear as a creature of a different size than you, and your basic shape stays the same if youre bipedal, you cant use this spell to becom e quadrupedal, for instance. At any time for the duration of the spell, you can use your action to change your appearance in this way again.Natural Weapons. You grow claws, fangs, spines, horns, or a different natural weapon of your choice. Your unarmed strikes deal  1d6 bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, as appropriate to the natural weapon you chose, and you are proficient with your unarmed strikes. Finally, the natural weapon is m agic and you have a +1 bonus to the attack and damage rolls you make using it.
Animal Friendship;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a m orsel of food;24 hours;-;This spell lets you convince a beast that you mean it no This spell lets you convince a beast that you mean it no harm. C hoose a beast that you can see within range.It must see and hear you. If the beasts Intelligence is4 or higher, the spell fails. Otherwise, the beast must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be charm ed by you for the spells duration. If you or one of your com panions harms the target, the spells ends.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect one additional beast for each slot level above  1st.
Animal Messenger;2;enchantment;True; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a m orsel of food;24 hours;-;By means of this spell, you use an animal to deliver a By means of this spell, you use an animal to deliver a message. C hoose a Tiny beast you can see within range, such as a squirrel, a blue jay, or a bat. You specify a location, which you must have visited, and a recipient who matches a general description, such as “a man or wom an dressed in the uniform of the town guard” or “a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat.” You also speak a m essage of up to twenty-five words. The target beast travels for the duration of the spell toward the specifiedlocation, covering about 50 m iles per 24 hours for a flying messenger, or 25 m iles for other animals.W hen the m essenger arrives, it delivers your m essage to the creature that you described, replicating the sound of your voice. The m essenger speaks only to a creature matching the description you gave. If the m essenger doesnt reach its destination before the spell ends, the m essage is lost, and the beast makes its way back to where you cast this spell.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3nd level or higher, the duration of the spell increases by 48 hours for each slot level above 2nd.
Animal Shapes;8;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to 24 hours;Your m agic turns others into beasts. C hoose any Your m agic turns others into beasts. C hoose any number of willing creatures that you can see within range. You transform each target into the form  o f a Large or smaller beast with a challenge rating of 4 or lower. On subsequent turns, you can use your action to transform affected creatures into new forms.The transformation lasts for the duration for each target, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. You can choose a different form for each target. A targets game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the chosen beast, though the target retains its alignment and Intelligence, W isdom , and Charisma scores. The target assum es the hit points o f its new form, and when it reverts to its normal form, it returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesnt reduce the creatures normal form to 0 hit points, it isnt knocked unconscious. The creature is limited in the actions it can perform  by the nature of its new form, and it cant speak or cast spells.The targets gear melds into the new form. The target cant activate, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.
Animate Dead;3;necromancy;-;1 minute;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of blood, a piece of flesh,and a pinch of bone dust;instant;-;This spell creates an undead servant. C hoose a pile This spell creates an undead servant. C hoose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or Sm all humanoid within range. Your spell im bues the target with a foul mimicry of life, raising it as an undead creature. The target becom es a skeleton if you chose bones or a zom bie if you chose a corpse (the DM has the creatures game statistics).On each of your turns, you can use a bonus action to mentally com m and any creature you made with this spell if the creature is within 60 feet of you (if youcontrol multiple creatures, you can com m and any or all of them at the sam e time, issuing the sam e com m and to each one). You decide what action the creature will take and where it w ill move during its next turn, or you can issue a general com m and, such as to guard a particular cham ber or corridor. If you issue no com m ands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any com m and youve given it. To maintain control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature again before the current 24-hour period ends. This use o f the spell reasserts your control over up to four creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than animating a new one.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you animate or reassert control over two additional undead creatures for each slot level above 3rd. Each of the creatures must com e from  a different corpse or pile of bones.
Animate Objects;5;transmutation;-;1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Objects com e to life at your com m and. Choose up to Objects com e to life at your com m and. Choose up to ten nonm agical objects within range that are not being worn or carried. Medium targets count as two objects, Large targets count as four objects, Huge targets count as eight objects. You cant animate any object larger than Huge. Each target animates and becom es a creature under your control until the spell ends or until reduced to 0 hit points.As a bonus action, you can mentally com m and any creature you made with this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can com m and any or all of them at the same time, issuing the same com m and to each one). You decide what action the creature w ill take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a general com m and, such as to guard a particular cham ber or corridor. If you issue no com m ands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.MISSINGAn animated object is a construct with AC, hit points, attacks, Strength, and Dexterity determined by its size. Its Constitution is  10 and its Intelligence and W isdomare 3, and its Charisma is  1. Its speed is 30 feet if the object lacks legs or other appendages it can use for locom otion, it instead has a flying speed of 30 feet and can hover. If the object is securely attached to a surface or a larger object, such as a chain bolted to a wall, its speed is 0. It has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet and is blind beyond that distance. W hen the animated object drops to 0 hit points, it reverts to its original object form, and any remaining damage carries over to its original object form.If you com m and an object to attack, it can make a single melee attack against a creature within 5 feet of it. It makes a slam attack with an attack bonus and bludgeoning damage determined by its size. The DM might rule that a specific object inflicts slashing or piercing damage based on its form.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can animate two additional objects for each slot level above 5th.
Antilife Shell;5;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A shim mering barrier extends out from  you in a 10-foot A shim mering barrier extends out from  you in a 10-foot radius and m oves with you, remaining centered on you and hedging out creatures other than undead and constructs. The barrier lasts for the duration.The barrier prevents an affected creature from passing or reaching through. An affected creature can cast spells or make attacks with ranged or reach w eapons through the barrier.If you move so that an affected creature is forced to pass through the barrier, the spell ends.
Antimagic Field;8;abjuration;-; 1  action;-;self;V,S,M;(a pinch of powdered iron oriron filings;1 hour;-;A  10-foot-radius invisible sphere of antimagic surrounds A  10-foot-radius invisible sphere of antimagic surrounds you. This area is divorced from the magical energy that suffuses the multiverse. Within the sphere, spells cant be cast, sum m oned creatures disappear, and even m agic items becom e mundane. Until the spell ends, the sphere m oves with you, centered on you.Spells and other magical effects, except those created by an artifact or a deity, are suppressed in the sphere and cant protrude into it. A slot expended to cast a suppressed spell is consum ed. W hile an effect is suppressed, it doesnt function, but the time it spends suppressed counts against its duration.Targeted Effects. Spells and other magical effects, such as magic missile and charm person, that target a creature or an object in the sphere have no effect on that target.Areas of Magic. The area of another spell or magical effect, such as fireball, cant extend into the sphere.If the sphere overlaps an area of magic, the part of the area that is covered by the sphere is suppressed.For example, the flames created by a wall o f fire are suppressed within the sphere, creating a gap in the wall if the overlap is large enough.Spells. Any active spell or other magical effect on a creature or an object in the sphere is suppressed while the creature or object is in it.Magic Items. The properties and powers of m agic items are suppressed in the sphere. For example, a + 1 longsword in the sphere functions as a nonm agical longsword.A m agic w eapons properties and powers are suppressed if it is used against a target in the sphere or wielded by an attacker in the sphere. If a magic weapon or a piece of magic ammunition fully leaves the sphere (for example, if you fire a m agic arrow or throw a magic spear at a target outside the sphere), the m agic of the item ceases to be suppressed as soon as it exits.Magical Travel. Teleportation and planar travel fail to work in the sphere, whether the sphere is the destination or the departure point for such magical travel. A portal to another location, world, or plane of existence, as well as an opening to an extradimensional space such as that created by the rope trick spell, temporarily closes while in the sphere.Creatures and Objects. A creature or object sum m oned or created by m agic temporarily winks out of existence in the sphere. Such a creature instantly reappears once the space the creature occupied is no longer within the sphere.Dispel Magic. Spells and magical effects such as dispel magic have no effect on the sphere. Likewise, the spheres created by different antimagic field spells dont nullify each other.
Antipathy/Sympathy;8;enchantment;-;1 hour;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(either a lump of alum soaked invinegar for the antipathy effect or a drop of honey forthe sympathy effect;10 days;-;This spell attracts or repels creatures of your choice. This spell attracts or repels creatures of your choice. You target som ething within range, either a Huge or smaller object or creature or an area that is no larger than a 200-foot cube. Then specify a kind of intelligent creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires.You invest the target with an aura that either attracts or repels the specified creatures for the duration. Choose antipathy or sympathy as the auras effect.Antipathy. The enchantment causes creatures of the kind you designated to feel an intense urge to leave the area and avoid the target. W hen such a creature can see the target or com es within 60 feet of it, the creature must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or becom e frightened. The creature remains frightened while it can see the target or is within 60 feet of it. W hile frightened by the target, the creature must use its movement tomove to the nearest safe spot from  which it cant see the target. If the creature m oves m ore than 60 feet from the target and cant see it, the creature is no longer frightened, but the creature becom es frightened again if it regains sight of the target or m oves within 60 feet o f it.Sympathy. The enchantment causes the specified creatures to feel an intense urge to approach the target while within 60 feet o f it or able to see it. W hen such a creature can see the target or com es within 60 feet of it, the creature must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or use its movement on each o f its turns to enter the area or move within reach of the target. W hen the creature has done so, it cant willingly move away from  the target.If the target dam ages or otherwise harms an affected creature, the affected creature can make a W isdom  saving throw to end the effect, as described below.Ending the Effect. If an affected creature ends its turn while not within 60 feet of the target or able to see it, the creature makes a W isdom  saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is no longer affected by the target and recognizes the feeling o f repugnance or attraction as magical. In addition, a creature affected by the spell is allowed another W isdom  saving throw every 24 hours while the spell persists.A creature that successfully saves against this effect is immune to it for 1  minute, after which time it can be affected again.
Arcane Eye;4;divination;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of bat fur;1 hour;-;You create an invisible, magical eye within range that You create an invisible, magical eye within range that hovers in the air for the duration.You mentally receive visual information from the eye, which has normal vision and darkvision out to 30 feet. The eye can look in every direction.As an action, you can move the eye up to 30 feet in any direction. There is no limit to how far away from you the eye can move, but it cant enter another plane o f existence. A solid barrier blocks the eyes movement, but the eye can pass through an opening as small as  1 inch in diameter.
Arcane Gate;6;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;500 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create linked teleportation portals that remain open You create linked teleportation portals that remain open for the duration. C hoose two points on the ground that you can see, one point within  10 feet of you and one point within 500 feet of you. A circular portal,  10 feet in diameter, opens over each point. If the portal would open in the space occupied by a creature, the spell fails, and the casting is lost.The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings filled with mist, hovering inches from the ground andperpendicular to it at the points you choose. A ring is visible only from one side (your choice), which is the side that functions as a portal.Any creature or object entering the portal exits from the other portal as if the two were adjacent to each other passing through a portal from  the nonportal side has no effect. The mist that fills each portal is opaque and blocks vision through it. On your turn, you can rotate the rings as a bonus action so that the active side faces in a different direction.
Arcane Lock;2;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(gold dust w orth at least 25 gp,which the spell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other You touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other entryway, and it becom es locked for the duration. You and the creatures you designate when you cast this spell can open the object normally. You can also set a password that, when spoken within 5 feet of the object, suppresses this spell for 1  minute. Otherwise, it is im passable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled or suppressed. Casting knock on the object suppresses arcane lock for 10 minutes.W hile affected by this spell, the object is m ore difficult to break or force open the DC to break it or pick any locks on it increases by 10.
Armor of Agathys;1;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a cup of water;1 hour;-;A protective m agical force surrounds you, manifesting A protective m agical force surrounds you, manifesting as a spectral frost that covers you and your gear.You gain 5 temporary hit points for the duration. If a creature hits you with a melee attack while you have these hit points, the creature takes 5 cold damage.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, both the temporary hit points and the cold damage increase by 5 for each slot level above  1st.
Arms of Hadar;1;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;You invoke the power o f Hadar, the Dark Hunger. You invoke the power o f Hadar, the Dark Hunger. Tendrils of dark energy erupt from you and batter all creatures within  10 feet of you. Each creature in that area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 2d6 necrotic damage and cant take reactions until its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, but suffers no other effect.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above  1st.
Astral Projection;9;necromancy;-;1 hour;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(for each creature you affect withthis spell, you must provide one jacinth worth at least1,000at least 100 gp, all of which the spell consum es)gp and one ornately carved bar of silver wort;special;-;You and up to eight willing creatures within range You and up to eight willing creatures within range project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the spell fails and the casting is wasted if you are already on that plane). The material body you leave behind is unconscious and in a state of suspended animation it doesnt need food or air and doesnt age.Your astral body resem bles your m ortal form in almost every way, replicating your game statistics and possessions. The principal difference is the addition of a silvery cord that extends from between your shoulder blades and trails behind you, fading to invisibility after1  foot. This cord is your tether to your material body. As long as the tether remains intact, you can find your way home. If the cord is cutsom ething that can happen only when an effect specifically states that it doesyour soul and body are separated, killing you instantly.Your astral form can freely travel through the Astral Plane and can pass through portals there leading to any other plane. If you enter a new plane or return to the plane you were on when casting this spell, your body and possessions are transported along the silver cord, allowing you to re-enter your body as you enter the new plane.Your astral form is a separate incarnation. Any damage or other effects that apply to it have no effect on your physical body, nor do they persist when you return to it.The spell ends for you and your com panions when you use your action to dismiss it. W hen the spell ends, the affected creature returns to its physical body, and it awakens.The spell might also end early for you or one o f your com panions. A successful dispel magic spell used against an astral or physical body ends the spell for that creature. If a creatures original body or its astral form drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends for that creature. If the spell ends and the silver cord is intact, the cord pulls the creatures astral form back to its body, ending its state of suspended animation.If you are returned to your body prematurely, your com panions remain in their astral form s and must find their own way back to their bodies, usually by dropping to 0 hit points.
Augury;2;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;(specially marked sticks, bones,or similar tokens w orth at least 25 gp;instant;-;By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones, laying out ornate cards, or employing som e other divining tool, you receive an om en from an otherworldly entity about the results of a specific course of action that you plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM chooses from  the following possible omens:•  Weal, for good results•  Woe, for bad results•  Weal and woe, for both good and bad results•  Nothing, for results that arent especially good or badThe spell doesnt take into account any possible circum stances that might change the outcome, such as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of a companion.If you cast the spell two or m ore times before com pleting your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The DM m akes this roll in secret.
Aura  of  Life;4;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;Life-preserving energy radiates from you in an aura with Life-preserving energy radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura m oves with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature in the aura (including you) has resistance to necrotic damage, and its hit point maximum cant be reduced. In addition, a nonhostile, living creature regains  1  hit point when it starts its turn in the aura with 0 hit points.
Aura of Purity;4;abjuration;-; 1 action ;-;self;V;-;concentration; up to 10 minutes;Purifying energy radiates from  you in an aura with a Purifying energy radiates from  you in an aura with a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature in the aura (including you) cant becom e diseased, has resistance to poison damage, and has advantage on saving throws against effects that cause any of the following conditions: blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, paralyzed, poisoned, and stunned.
Aura of Vitality;3;evocation;-;1  action ;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Healing energy radiates from  you in an aura with a Healing energy radiates from  you in an aura with a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura m oves with you, centered on you. You can use a bonus action to cause one creature in the aura (including you) to regain 2d6 hit points.
Awaken;5;transmutation;-;8 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;(an agate worth at least  1,000 gp,which the spell consum es;instant;-;After spending the casting time tracing magical After spending the casting time tracing magical pathways within a precious gemstone, you touch a Huge or smaller beast or plant. The target must have either no Intelligence score or an Intelligence of 3 or less. The target gains an Intelligence of 10. The target also gains the ability to speak one language you know. If the target is a plant, it gains the ability to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains senses similar to a humans. Your DM chooses statistics appropriate for the awakened plant, such as the statistics for the awakened shrub or the awakened tree.The awakened beast or plant is charm ed by you for 30 days or until you or your com panions do anything harmful to it. W hen the charm ed condition ends, the awakened creature chooses whether to remain friendly to you, based on how you treated it while it w as charmed.
Bane;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of blood;1 minutes;-;Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see within range must make Charisma saving throws. W henever a target that fails this saving throw makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the attack roll or saving throw.At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above  1st.
Banishing Smite;5;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a w eapon attack The next time you hit a creature with a w eapon attack before this spell ends, your w eapon crackles with force, and the attack deals an extra 5d10 force damage to the target. Additionally, if this attack reduces the target to 50 hit points or fewer, you banish it. If the target is native to a different plane of existence than the one youre on, the target disappears, returning to its home plane. If the target is native to the plane youre on, the creature vanishes into a harm less demiplane. W hile there, the target is incapacitated. It remains there until the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
Banishment;4;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(an item distasteful to the target;1 minutes;-;You attempt to send one creature that you can see You attempt to send one creature that you can see within range to another plane of existence. The target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be banished.If the target is native to the plane o f existence youre on, you banish the target to a harm less demiplane.W hile there, the target is incapacitated. The target remains there until the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.If the target is native to a different plane of existence than the one youre on, the target is banished with a faint popping noise, returning to its hom e plane.If the spell ends before  1  minute has passed, the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied. Otherwise, the target doesnt return.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
Barkskin;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a handful of oak bark;1 hour;-;You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the targets skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the targets AC cant be less than  16, regardless of what kind of armor it is wearing.
Beacon of Hope;3;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;This spell bestow s hope and vitality. C hoose any This spell bestow s hope and vitality. C hoose any number of creatures within range. For the duration, each target has advantage on W isdom  saving throws and death saving throws, and regains the maximum num ber of hit points possible from any healing.
Beast Sense;2;divination;True; 1  action ;-;touch;S;-;1 hour;-;You touch a willing beast. For the duration of the spell, You touch a willing beast. For the duration of the spell, you can use your action to see through the beasts eyes and hear what it hears, and continue to do so until you use your action to return to your normal senses.W hile perceiving through the beasts senses, you gain the benefits of any special senses possessed by that creature, though you are blinded and deafened to your own surroundings.
Bestow Curse;3;necromancy;-;1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You touch a creature, and that creature must succeed You touch a creature, and that creature must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or becom e cursed for the duration of the spell. W hen you cast this spell, choose the nature of the curse from the following options:•  C hoose one ability score. W hile cursed, the target has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws made with that ability score.•  W hile cursed, the target has disadvantage on attack rolls against you.•  W hile cursed, the target must make a W isdom  sav­ing throw at the start o f each o f its turns. If it fails, it wastes its action that turn doing nothing.•  W hile the target is cursed, your attacks and spells deal an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target.A remove curse spell ends this effect. At the DM s option, you may choose an alternative curse effect, but it should be no m ore powerful than those described above. The DM has final say on such a curses effect.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to  10 minutes. If you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the duration is 8 hours. If you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. If you use a 9th level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled. Using a spell slot of 5th level or higher grants a duration that doesnt require concentration.
Bigbys Hand;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(an eggshell and asnakeskin glove;1 minutes;-;You create a Large hand of shimmering, translucent You create a Large hand of shimmering, translucent force in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The hand lasts for the spells duration, and it m oves at your command, m im icking the movements of your own hand.The hand is an object that has AC 20 and hit points equal to your hit point maximum. If it drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends. It has a Strength of 26 (+8) and a Dexterity o f 10 (+0). The hand doesnt fill its space.W hen you cast the spell and as a bonus action on your subsequent turns, you can move the hand up to 60 feet and then cause one o f the following effects with it.Clenched Fist. The hand strikes one creature or object within 5 feet of it. Make a melee spell attack forthe hand using your game statistics. On a hit, the target takes 4d8 force damage.Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a creature within 5 feet of it in a direction you choose. Make a check with the hands Strength contested by the Strength (Athletics) check of the target. If the target is Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check. If you succeed, the hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus a number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability modifier. The hand m oves with the target to remain within 5 feet of it.Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. You use the hands Strength score to resolve the grapple. If the target is Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check. W hile the hand is grappling the target, you can use a bonus action to have the hand crush it. W hen you do so, the target takes bludgeoning damage equal to 2d6 + your spellcasting ability modifier.Interposing Hand. The hand interposes itself between you and a creature you choose until you give the hand a different com m and. The hand m oves to stay between you and the target, providing you with half cover against the target. The target cant move through the hands space if its Strength score is less than or equal to the hands Strength score. If its Strength score is higher than the hands Strength score, the target can move toward you through the hands space, but that space is difficult terrain for the target.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage from the clenched fist option increases by 2d8 and the damage from the grasping hand increases by 2d6 for each slot level above 5th.
Blade Barrier;6;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sharp blades You create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sharp blades made of m agical energy. The wall appears within range and lasts for the duration. You can make a straight wall up to  100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and5 feet thick. The wall provides three-quarters cover to creatures behind it, and its space is difficult terrain.W hen a creature enters the w alls area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 6 d10 slashing damage. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.
Blade Ward;0;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 round;-;You extend your hand and trace a sigil of warding in the air. Until the end of your next turn, you have resistance against bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage dealt by weapon attacks.
Bless;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a sprinkling of holy water;1 minutes;-;You bless up to three creatures of your choice within You bless up to three creatures of your choice within range. W henever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above  1st.
Blight;4;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;Necrom antic energy w ashes over a creature of your Necrom antic energy w ashes over a creature of your choice that you can see within range, draining moisture and vitality from  it. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. The target takes 8d8 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.If you target a plant creature or a magical plant, it m akes the saving throw with disadvantage, and the spell deals maximum damage to it.If you target a nonm agical plant that isnt a creature, such as a tree or shrub, it doesnt make a saving throw it simply withers and dies.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.
Blinding Smite;3;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a m elee weapon The next time you hit a creature with a m elee weapon attack during this spells duration, your weapon flares with bright light, and the attack deals an extra 3d8 radiant damage to the target. Additionally, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the spell ends.A creature blinded by this spell m akes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.
Blindness/Deafness;2;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You can blind or deafen a foe. C hoose one creature that You can blind or deafen a foe. C hoose one creature that you can see within range to make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, the target is either blinded or deafened (your choice) for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make a Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell ends.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.
Blink;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Roll a d20 at the end of each of your turns for the Roll a d20 at the end of each of your turns for the duration of the spell. On a roll of 11  or higher, you vanish from  your current plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal Plane (the spell fails and the casting is wasted if you w ere already on that plane). At the start of your next turn, and when the spell ends if you are on the Ethereal Plane, you return to an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within  10 feet o f the space you vanished from. If no unoccupied space is available within that range, you appear in the nearest unoccupied space (chosen at random if m ore than one space is equally near). You can dismiss this spell as an action.W hile on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and hear the plane you originated from, which is cast in shades of gray, and you cant see anything there m ore than 60 feet away. You can only affect and be affected by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane. Creatures that arent there cant perceive you or interact with you, unless they have the ability to do so.
Blur;2;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Your body becom es blurred, shifting and wavering to Your body becom es blurred, shifting and wavering to all w ho can see you. For the duration, any creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it doesnt rely on sight, as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as with truesight.
Branding Smite;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack before this spell ends, the w eapon gleam s with astral radiance as you strike. The attack deals an extra 2d6 radiant damage to the target, which becom es visible if its invisible, and the target sheds dim light in a 5-foot radius and cant becom e invisible until the spell ends.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the extra damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
Burning Hands;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and fingers spread, a thin sheet of flames shoots forth from your outstretched fingertips. Each creature in a  15-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that arent being worn or carried.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above  1st.
Call Lightning;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;A storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that A storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius, centered on a point you can see  100 feet directly above you. The spell fails if you cant see a point in the air where the storm cloud could appear (for example, if you are in a room  that cant accom m odate the cloud).W hen you cast the spell, choose a point you can see within range. A bolt of lightning flashes down from  the cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d10 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. On each o f your turns until the spell ends, you can use your action to call down lightning in this way again, targeting the same point or a different one.If you are outdoors in stormy conditions when you cast this spell, the spell gives you control over the existing storm instead of creating a new one. Under such conditions, the spells damage increases by 1d10.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th or higher level, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.
Calm Emotions;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to suppress strong em otions in a group You attempt to suppress strong em otions in a group of people. Each humanoid in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must make a Charisma saving throw a creature can choose to fail this saving throw if it wishes. If a creature fails its saving throw, choose one of the following two effects.You can suppress any effect causing a target to be charm ed or frightened. W hen this spell ends, any suppressed effect resumes, provided that its duration has not expired in the meantime.Alternatively, you can make a target indifferent about creatures of your choice that it is hostile toward. This indifference ends if the target is attacked or harmed by a spell or if it w itnesses any of its friends being harmed. W hen the spell ends, the creature becom es hostile again, unless the DM rules otherwise.
Chain Lightning;6;evocation;-;1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of fur a piece of amber,glass, or a crystal rod and three silver pins;instant;-;You create a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of You create a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of your choice that you can see within range. Three bolts then leap from  that target to as many as three other targets, each of which must be within 30 feet of the first target. A target can be a creature or an object and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.A target must make a Dexterity saving throw. The target takes 10d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 7th level or higher, one additional bolt leaps from the first target to another target for each slot level above 6th.
Charm Person;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You attempt to charm  a humanoid you can see within You attempt to charm  a humanoid you can see within range. It must make a W isdom  saving throw, and does so with advantage if you or your com panions are fighting it. If it fails the saving throw, it is charm ed by you until the spell ends or until you or your com panions do anything harmful to it. The charm ed creature regards you as a friendly acquaintance. W hen the spell ends, the creature knows it was charm ed by you.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target oneadditional creature for each slot level above  1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet o f each other when you target them.
Chill Touch;0;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the space of a You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the space of a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the creature to assail it with the chill of the grave. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 necrotic damage, and it cant regain hit points until the start o f your next turn. Until then, the hand clings to the target.If you hit an undead target, it also has disadvantage on attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn.This spells damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8),  11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Chromatic Orb;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(a diamond worth at least 50 gp;instant;-;You hurl a 4-inch-diameter sphere of energy at a You hurl a 4-inch-diameter sphere of energy at a creature that you can see within range. You choose acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder for the type of orb you create, and then make a ranged spell attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes 3d8 damage of the type you chose.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above  1st.
Circle of Death;6;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(the powder o f a crushed blackpearl worth at least 500 gp;instant;-;A sphere of negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot- A sphere of negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot- radius sphere from a point within range. Each creature in that area must make a Constitution saving throw. A target takes 8d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by 2d6 for each slot level above 6th.
Circle of Power;5;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;concentration; up to 10 minutes;Divine energy radiates from  you, distorting and diffusing magical energy within 30 feet of you. Until the spell ends, the sphere m oves with you, centered on you. For the duration, each friendly creature in the area (including you) has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Additionally, when an affected creature succeeds on a saving throw made against a spell or magical effect that allows it to make a saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw.
Clairvoyance;3;divination;-;10 minutes;-;1 mile;V,S,M;(a focus worth at least  100gp, either a jew eled horn for hearing or a glasseye for seeing;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create an invisible sensor within range in a location You create an invisible sensor within range in a location familiar to you (a place you have visited or seen before) or in an obvious location that is unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees). The sensor remains in place for the duration, and it cant be attacked or otherwise interacted with.W hen you cast the spell, you choose seeing or hearing. You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as if you were in its space. As your action, you can switch between seeing and hearing.A creature that can see the sensor (such as a creature benefiting from see invisibility or truesight) sees a luminous, intangible orb about the size of your fist.
Clone;8;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(a diamond worth at least 1,000gp and at least  1  cubic inch of flesh of the creaturethat is to be cloned, which the spell consum es, and avessel worth at least 2,000 gp that has a sealable lidand is large enough to hold a Medium creature, suchas a huge urn, coffin, mud-filled cyst in the ground, orcrystal container filled with salt water;instant;-;This spell grows an inert duplicate o f a living creature This spell grows an inert duplicate o f a living creature as a safeguard against death. This clone forms inside a sealed vessel and grows to full size and maturity after 120 days you can also choose to have the clone be a younger version of the sam e creature. It remains inert and endures indefinitely, as long as its vessel remains undisturbed.At any time after the clone matures, if the original creature dies, its soul transfers to the clone, provided that the soul is free and willing to return. The clone is physically identical to the original and has the same personality, m em ories, and abilities, but none of the originals equipment. The original creatures physical remains, if they still exist, becom e inert and cant thereafter be restored to life, since the creatures soul is elsewhere.
Cloud of Daggers;2;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a sliver of glass;1 minutes;-;You fill the air with spinning daggers in a cube 5 feet on You fill the air with spinning daggers in a cube 5 feet on each side, centered on a point you choose within range. A creature takes 4d4 slashing damage when it enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 2d4 for each slot level above 2nd.
Cloudkill;5;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of poisonous, yellow- You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of poisonous, yellow- green fog centered on a point you choose within range. The fog spreads around corners. It lasts for the duration or until strong wind disperses the fog, ending the spell. Its area is heavily obscured.W hen a creature enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must make a Constitution saving throw. The creature takes 5d8 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures are affected even if they hold their breath or dont need to breathe.The fog m oves  10 feet away from  you at the start of each of your turns, rolling along the surface of the ground. The vapors, being heavier than air, sink to the lowest level of the land, even pouring down openings.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.
Color Spray;1;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a pinch of powder or sand that iscolored red, yellow, and blue;1 round;-;A dazzling array of flashing, colored light springs from A dazzling array of flashing, colored light springs from your hand. Roll 6d10 the total is how many hit points of creatures this spell can effect. Creatures in a  15-foot cone originating from you are affected in ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures and creatures that cant see).Starting with the creature that has the lowest current hit points, each creature affected by this spell is blinded until the spell ends. Subtract each creatures hit points from the total before moving on to the creature with the next lowest hit points. A creatures hit points must be equal to or less than the remaining total for that creature to be affected.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d10 for each slot level above  1st.
Command;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;1 round;-;You speak a one-word com m and to a creature you can You speak a one-word com m and to a creature you can see within range. The target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or follow the com m and on its next turn. The spell has no effect if the target is undead, if it doesnt understand your language, or if your com m and is directly harmful to it.Som e typical com m ands and their effects follow. You might issue a com m and other than one described here. If you do so, the DM determines how  the target behaves. If the target cant follow your com m and, the spell ends.Approach. The target m oves toward you by the shortest and m ost direct route, ending its turn if it m oves within 5 feet of you.Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then ends its turn.Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from you by the fastest available means.Grovel. The target falls prone and then ends its turn. Halt. The target doesnt move and takes no actions.A flying creature stays aloft, provided that it is able to do so. If it must move to stay aloft, it flies the minimum distance needed to remain in the air.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 2nd level or higher, you can affect one additional creature for each slot level above  1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Commune;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;(incense and a vial o f holy orunholy water;1 minutes;-;You contact your deity or a divine proxy and ask up to You contact your deity or a divine proxy and ask up to three questions that can be answered with a yes or no. You must ask your questions before the spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each question.Divine beings arent necessarily omniscient, so you might receive “unclear” as an answer if a question pertains to information that lies beyond the deitys knowledge. In a case where a one-word answer could be misleading or contrary to the deitys interests, the DM might offer a short phrase as an answer instead.If you cast the spell two or m ore times before finishing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get no answer. The DM makes this roll in secret.
Commune with Nature;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;You briefly becom e one with nature and gain knowledge You briefly becom e one with nature and gain knowledge of the surrounding territory. In the outdoors, the spell gives you knowledge of the land within 3 m iles of you.In caves and other natural underground settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell doesnt function where nature has been replaced by construction, such as in dungeons and towns.You instantly gain knowledge of up to three facts of your choice about any of the following subjects as they relate to the area:•  terrain and bodies of water•  prevalent plants, minerals, animals, or peoples•  powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead•  influence from other planes of existence•  buildingsFor example, you could determine the location of powerful undead in the area, the location of major sources o f safe drinking water, and the location of any nearby towns.
Compelled Duel;1;enchantment;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to com pel a creature into a duel. One You attempt to com pel a creature into a duel. One creature that you can see within range must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is drawn to you, com pelled by your divine demand. For the duration, it has disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than you, and must make a W isdom  saving throw each time it attempts to move to a space that is m ore than 30 feet away from  you if it succeeds on this saving throw, this spell doesnt restrict the targets movement for that turn.The spell ends if you attack any other creature, if you cast a spell that targets a hostile creature other than the target, if a creature friendly to you damages the target or casts a harmful spell on it, or if you end your turn m ore than 30 feet away from the target.
Comprehend Languages;1;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a pinch of soot and salt;1 hour;-;For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of any spoken language that you hear. You also understand any written language that you see, but you must be touching the surface on which the w ords are written. It takes about  1  minute to read one page of text.This spell doesnt decode secret m essages in a text or a glyph, such as an arcane sigil, that isnt part of a written language.
Compulsion;4;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Creatures of your choice that you can see within range Creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you must make a W isdom  saving throw. A target automatically succeeds on this saving throw if it cant be charmed. On a failed save, a target is affected by this spell. Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each affected target must use as much of its movement as possible to move in that direction on its next turn. It can take its action before it moves. After moving in this way, it can make another W isdom  saving to try to end the effect.A  target isnt com pelled to move into an obviously deadly hazard, such as a fire or pit, but it will provoke opportunity attacks to move in the designated direction.
Cone of Cold;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a small crystal or glass cone;instant;-;A blast of cold air erupts from  your hands. Each A blast of cold air erupts from  your hands. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A creature killed by this spell becom es a frozen statue until it thaws.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.
Confusion;4;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(three nut shells;1 minutes;-;This spell assaults and twists creatures minds, This spell assaults and twists creatures minds, spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw when you cast this spell or be affected by it.An affected target cant take reactions and must roll a d 10 at the start of each of its turns to determine its behavior for that turn.MISSINGBehaviorThe creature uses all its movement to move in a random direction. To determine the direction,  roll a d8 and assign a direction to each die face. The creature doesnt take an action this turn.The creature doesnt move or take actions this turn.The creature uses its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within  its reach.  If there is no creature within its reach, the creature does  nothing this turn.The creature can act and move normally.At the end of each o f its turns, an affected target can make a W isdom  saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the sphere increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 4th.
Conjure Animals;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You sum m on fey spirits that take the form of beasts and You sum m on fey spirits that take the form of beasts and appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. C hoose one of the following options for what appears:•  One beast of challenge rating 2 or lower•  Two beasts of challenge rating  1  or lower•  Four beasts of challenge rating 1/2 or lower•  Eight beasts of challenge rating 1/4 or lowerEach beast is also considered fey, and it disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.The sum m oned creatures are friendly to you and your com panions. Roll initiative for the sum m oned creatures as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal com m ands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you dont issue any com m ands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions.The DM has the creatures statistics.A t Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher level spell slots, you choose one of the sum m oning options above, and m ore creatures appear: twice as many with a 5th level slot, three times as many with a 7th level slot, and four times as many with a 9th level slot.
Conjure Barrage;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(one piece of ammunition or athrown weapon;instant;-;You throw a nonm agical weapon or fire a piece of You throw a nonm agical weapon or fire a piece of nonm agical ammunition into the air to create a coneof identical weapons that shoot forward and then disappear. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The damage type is the same as that of the weapon or ammunition used as a component.
Conjure Celestial;7;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You sum m on a celestial of challenge rating 4 or lower, You sum m on a celestial of challenge rating 4 or lower, which appears in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The celestial disappears when it drops to0 hit points or when the spell ends.The celestial is friendly to you and your com panions for the duration. Roll initiative for the celestial, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal com m ands that you issue to it (no action required by you), as long as they dont violate its alignment. If you dont issue any com m ands to the celestial, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions.The DM has the celestials statistics.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a 9th level spell slot, you summ on a celestial of challenge rating 5 or lower.
Conjure Elemental;5;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(burning incense for air, soft clayfor earth, sulfur and phosphorus for fire, or water andsand for water;1 hour;-;You call forth an elemental servant. Choose an area of air, You call forth an elemental servant. Choose an area of air, earth, fire, or water that fills a 10-foot cube within range. An elemental of challenge rating 5 or lower appropriate to the area you chose appears in an unoccupied space within  10 feet of it. For example, a fire elemental em erges from a bonfire, and an earth elemental rises up from  the ground. The elemental disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.The elemental is friendly to you and your com panions for the duration. Roll initiative for the elemental, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal com m ands that you issue to it (no action required by you). If you dont issue any com m ands to the elemental, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions.If your concentration is broken, the elemental doesnt disappear. Instead, you lose control of the elemental, it becom es hostile toward you and your companions, and it might attack. An uncontrolled elemental cant be dism issed by you, and it disappears  1  hour after you sum m oned it.The DM has the elementals statistics.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1  for each slot level above 5th.
Conjure Fey;6;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You sum m on a fey creature of challenge rating 6 or You sum m on a fey creature of challenge rating 6 or lower, or a fey spirit that takes the form of a beast of challenge rating 6 or lower. It appears in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The fey creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.The fey creature is friendly to you and your com panions for the duration. Roll initiative for the creature, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal com m ands that you issue to it (no action required by you), as long as they dont violate its alignment. If you dont issue any com m ands to the fey creature, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions.If your concentration is broken, the fey creature doesnt disappear. Instead, you lose control o f the fey creature, it becom es hostile toward you and your com panions, and it might attack. An uncontrolled fey creature cant be dism issed by you, and it disappears  1 hour after you sum m oned it.The DM has the fey creatures statistics.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1  for each slot level above 6th.
Conjure Minor Elementals;4;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You summ on elementals that appear in unoccupied You summ on elementals that appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. You choose one the following options for what appears:•  One elemental of challenge rating 2 or lower•  Two elementals o f challenge rating 1  or lower•  Four elementals of challenge rating  1/2 or lower•  Eight elementals of challenge rating 1/4 or lower.An elemental sum m oned by this spell disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.The sum m oned creatures are friendly to you and your com panions. Roll initiative for the sum m oned creatures as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal com m ands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you dont issue any com m ands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions.The DM has the creatures statistics.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using certain higher level spell slots, you choose one of the sum m oning options above, and m ore creatures appear: twice as many with a 6th level slot and three times as many with an 8th level slot.
Conjure Volley;5;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(one piece of ammunition or onethrown weapon;instant;-;You fire a piece of nonmagical ammunition from a You fire a piece of nonmagical ammunition from a ranged weapon or throw a nonm agical weapon into the air and choose a point within range. Hundreds of duplicates of the ammunition or w eapon fall in a volley from above and then disappear. Each creature in a 40-foot-radius. 20-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The damage type is the same as that of the ammunition or weapon.
Conjure Woodland Beings;4;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(one holly berry percreature sum m oned;1 hour;-;You summ on fey creatures that appear in unoccupied You summ on fey creatures that appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. C hoose one of the following options for what appears:•  One fey creature of challenge rating 2 or lower•  Two fey creatures of challenge rating 1  or lower•  Four fey creatures of challenge rating 1/2 or lower•  Eight fey creatures of challenge rating 1/4 or lowerA sum m oned creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.The sum m oned creatures are friendly to you and your com panions. Roll initiative for the summ oned creatures as a group, which have their own turns. They obey any verbal com m ands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you dont issue any com m ands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions.The DM has the creatures statistics.A t Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher level spell slots, you choose one o f the sum m oning options above, and m ore creatures appear: twice as many with a 6th level slot and three times as many with an 8th level slot.
Contact Other Plane;5;divination;True;1 minute;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit o f a long-dead You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit o f a long-dead sage, or som e other mysterious entity from  another plane. Contacting this extraplanar intelligence can strain or even break your mind. W hen you cast this spell, make a DC  15 Intelligence saving throw. On afailure, you take 6d6 psychic damage and are insane until you finish a long rest. W hile insane, you cant take actions, cant understand what other creatures say, cant read, and speak only in gibberish. A greater restoration spell cast on you ends this effect.On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to five questions. You must ask your questions before the spell ends. The DM answers each question with one word, such as “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” “irrelevant,” or “unclear” (if the entity doesnt know the answer to the question). If a one-word answer would be misleading, the DM might instead offer a short phrase as an answer.
Contagion;5;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;7 days;-;Your touch inflicts disease. Make a melee spell attack Your touch inflicts disease. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, you afflict the creature with a disease of your choice from any of the ones described below.At the end of each of the targets turns, it must make a Constitution saving throw. After failing three of these saving throws, the diseases effects last for the duration, and the creature stops making these saves. After succeeding on three of these saving throws, the creature recovers from the disease, and the spell ends.Since this spell induces a natural disease in its target, any effect that removes a disease or otherwise ameliorates a diseases effects apply to it.Blinding Sickness. Pain grips the creatures mind, and its eyes turn milky white. The creature has disadvantage on W isdom  checks and W isdom  saving throws and is blinded.Filth Fever. A raging fever sw eeps through the creatures body. The creature has disadvantage on Strength checks, Strength saving throws, and attack rolls that use Strength.Flesh Rot. The creatures flesh decays. The creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability to all damage.Mindfire. The creatures mind becom es feverish. The creature has disadvantage on Intelligence checks and Intelligence saving throws, and the creature behaves as if under the effects of the confusion spell during combat.Seizure. The creature is overcom e with shaking.The creature has disadvantage on Dexterity checks, Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls that use Dexterity.Slimy Doom . The creature begins to bleed uncontrollably. The creature has disadvantage on Constitution checks and Constitution saving throws.In addition, whenever the creature takes damage, it is stunned until the end of its next turn.
Contingency;6;evocation;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;(a statuette of yourself carvedfrom ivory and decorated with gems worth atleast  1,500 gp;10 days;-;Choose a spell of 5th level or lower that you can cast, that Choose a spell of 5th level or lower that you can cast, that has a casting time of 1  action, and that can target you. You cast that spellcalled the contingent spellas part of casting contingency, expending spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesnt com e into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a certain circumstance occurs. You describe that circumstance when you cast the two spells. For example, a contingency cast with water breathing might stipulate that water breathing com es into effect when you are engulfed in water or a similar liquid.The contingent spell takes effect immediately after the circumstance is met for the first time, whether or not you want it to. and then contingency ends.The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even if it can normally target others. You can use only one contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell again, the effect of another contingency spell on you ends. Also, contingency ends on you if its material com ponent is ever not on your person.
Continual Flame;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(ruby dust worth 50 gp, which thespell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;A flame, equivalent in brightness to a torch, springs A flame, equivalent in brightness to a torch, springs forth from an object that you touch. The effect looks like a regular flame, but it creates no heat and doesnt use oxygen. A continual flame can be covered or hidden but not smothered or quenched.
Control Water;4;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of water and apinch of dust;concentration; up to  10 minutes;Until the spell ends, you control any freestanding water Until the spell ends, you control any freestanding water inside an area you choose that is a cube up to  100 feet on a side. You can choose from any of the following effects when you cast this spell. As an action on your turn, you can repeat the sam e effect or choose a different one.Flood. You cause the water level of all standing water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If the area includes a shore, the flooding water spills over onto dry land.If you choose an area in a large body of water, you instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from  one side of the area to the other and then crashes down. Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the waves path are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of capsizing.The water level remains elevated until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect produceda wave, the wave repeats on the start of your next turn while the flood effect lasts.Part Water. You cause water in the area to move apart and create a trench. The trench extends across the spells area, and the separated water form s a wall to either side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills in the trench over the course of the next round until the normal water level is restored.R edirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely directions. The water in the area m oves as you direct it, but once it m oves beyond the spells area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain conditions. The water continues to move in the direction you chose until the spell ends or you choose a different effect.Whirlpool. This effect requires a body of water at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. You cause a whirlpool to form in the center of the area. The whirlpool form s a vortex that is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature or object in the water and within 25 feet of the vortex is pulled  10 feet toward it. A creature can swim away from the vortex by making a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC.W hen a creature enters the vortex for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and is caught in the vortex until the spell ends. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, and isnt caught in the vortex. A creature caught in the vortex can use its action to try to swim away from the vortex as described above, but has disadvantage on the Strength (Athletics) check to do so.The first time each turn that an object enters the vortex, the object takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage this damage occurs each round it remains in the vortex.
Control Weather;8;transmutation;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;(burning incense and bits of earth and w ood mixed in water;concentration; up to 8 hours;You take control o f the weather within 5 miles of you You take control o f the weather within 5 miles of you for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast this spell. Moving to a place where you dont have a clear path to the sky ends the spell early.When you cast the spell, you change the current weather conditions, which are determined by the DM based on the climate and season. You can change precipitation, temperature, and wind. It takes  1d4 x  10 minutes for the new conditions to take effect. Once they do so, you can change the conditions again. W hen the spell ends, the weather gradually returns to normal.W hen you change the weather conditions, find a current condition on the following tables and change its stage by one, up or down. W hen changing the wind, you can change its direction.MISSING
Cordon of Arrows;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;5 feet;V,S,M;(four or m ore arrows or bolts;8 hours;-;You plant four pieces of nonm agical ammunition You plant four pieces of nonm agical ammunition arrows or crossbow  boltsin the ground within range and lay m agic upon them to protect an area. Until the spell ends, whenever a creature other than you com es within 30 feet of the ammunition for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take  1d6 piercing damage. The piece of ammunition is then destroyed. The spell ends when no ammunition remains.W hen you cast this spell, you can designate any creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of ammunition that can be affected increases by two for each slot level above 2nd.
Counterspell;3;abjuration;-;1 reaction; which you take when you see a creature within 60 feet of you casting a spell ;60 feet;S;-;instant;-;You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of casting a spell. If the creature is casting a spell of 3rd level or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. If it is casting a spell of 4th level or higher, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals  10 + the spells level. On a success, the creatures spell fails and has no effect.At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the interrupted spell has no effect if its level is less than or equal to the level of the spell slot you used.
Create Food and Water;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You create 45 pounds o f food and 30 gallons of water You create 45 pounds o f food and 30 gallons of water on the ground or in containers within range, enough to sustain up to fifteen humanoids or five steeds for 24 hours. The food is bland but nourishing, and spoils if uneaten after 24 hours. The water is clean and doesnt go bad.24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over up to three creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than animating new ones.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a 7th level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over four ghouls. W hen you cast this spell using an 8th level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over five ghouls or two ghasts or wights. W hen you cast this spell using a 9th level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over six ghouls, three ghasts or wights, or two mummies.
Create Undead;6;necromancy;-;1 minute;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(one clay pot filled with grave dirt,one clay pot filled with brackish water, and one 150 gpblack onyx stone for each corpse;instant;-;You can cast this spell only at night. C hoose up to three You can cast this spell only at night. C hoose up to three corpses of M edium or Sm all humanoids within range. Each corpse becom es a ghoul under your control. (The DM has game statistics for these creatures.)As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can mentally com m and any creature you animated with this spell if the creature is within  120 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can com m and any or all of them at the sam e time, issuing the same com m and to each one). You decide what action the creature w ill take and w here it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a general com m and, such as to guard a particular cham ber or corridor. If you issue no com m ands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any com m and you have given it. To maintain control of the creature for another
Create or Destroy Water;1;transmutation;-; 1  action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of water if creating wateror a few grains of sand if destroying it;instant;-;You either create or destroy water.You either create or destroy water.Create Water. You create up to  10 gallons of clean water within range in an open container. Alternatively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cube within range, extinguishing exposed flames in the area.D estroy Water. You destroy up to  10 gallons of water in an open container within range. Alternatively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot cube within range.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you create or destroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of the cube increases by 5 feet, for each slot level above  1st.
Creation;5;illusion;-;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny piece of matter of the sametype of the item you plan to create;special;-;You pull w isps of shadow material from the Shadowfell You pull w isps of shadow material from the Shadowfell to create a nonliving object of vegetable matter within range: soft goods, rope, w ood, or som ething similar. You can also use this spell to create mineral objects such as stone, crystal, or metal. The object created must be no larger than a 5-foot cube, and the object must be of a form and material that you have seen before.The duration depends on the objects material. If the object is com posed of multiple materials, use the shortest duration.MaterialVegetable matterStone or crystalPrecious metalsGemsAdamantine or mithralDuration1  day12 hours1  hour10 minutes1  minuteUsing any material created by this spell as another spells material com ponent causes that spell to fail.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the cube increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 5th.
Crown of Madness;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;One humanoid of your choice that you can see within One humanoid of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or becom e charm ed by you for the duration. W hile the target is charm ed in this way, a twisted crown of jagged iron appears on its head, and a madness glows in its eyes.The charm ed target must use its action before moving on each of its turns to make a melee attack against a creature other than itself that you mentally choose.The target can act normally on its turn if you choose no creature or if none are within its reach.On your subsequent turns, you must use your action to maintain control over the target, or the spell ends. Also, the target can make a W isdom  saving throw at the end o f each of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
Crusaders Mantle;3;evocation;-;1  action ;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;Holy power radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot Holy power radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot radius, awakening boldness in friendly creatures. Until the spell ends, the aura m oves with you, centered on you. W hile in the aura, each nonhostile creature in the aura (including you) deals an extra  1d4 radiant damage when it hits with a weapon attack.
Cure Wounds;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;A creature you touch regains a number of hit points A creature you touch regains a number of hit points equal to  1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d8 for each slot level above  1st.
Dancing Lights;0;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of phosphorus or w ychwood,or a glowworm ;1 minutes;-;You create up to four torch-sized lights within range, You create up to four torch-sized lights within range, making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glowing orbs that hover in the air for the duration. You can also com bine the four lights into one glowing vaguely humanoid form of M edium size. W hichever form you choose, each light sheds dim light in a  10-foot radius.As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the lights up to 60 feet to a new spot within range. A light must be within 20 feet of another light created by this spell, and a light winks out if it exceeds the spells range.
DarknessYoLo;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,M;(bat fur and a drop of pitch orpiece of coal;concentration; up to  10 minutes;M agical darkness spreads from a point you choose M agical darkness spreads from a point you choose within range to fill a  15-foot-radius sphere for theduration. The darkness spreads around corners.A creature with darkvision cant see through this darkness, and nonm agical light cant illuminate it.If the point you choose is on an object you are holding or one that isnt being worn or carried, the darkness emanates from the object and m oves with it. Completely covering the source of the darkness with an opaque object, such as a bow l or a helm, blocks the darkness.If any of this spells area overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that created the light is dispelled.
Darkvision;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(either a pinch of driedcarrot or an agate;8 hours;-;You touch a willing creature to grant it the ability to You touch a willing creature to grant it the ability to see in the dark. For the duration, that creature has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
Daylight;3;evocation;-; 1 action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A 60-foot-radius sphere of light spreads out from a point A 60-foot-radius sphere of light spreads out from a point you choose within range. The sphere is bright light and sheds dim light for an additional 60 feet.If you chose a point on an object you are holding or one that isnt being w orn or carried, the light shines from the object and m oves with it. Completely covering the affected object with an opaque object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the light.If any of this spells area overlaps with an area of darkness created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the spell that created the darkness is dispelled.
Death Ward;4;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You touch a creature and grant it a measure of You touch a creature and grant it a measure of protection from death.The first time the target w ould drop to 0 hit points as a result of taking damage, the target instead drops to  1  hit point, and the spell ends.If the spell is still in effect when the target is subjected to an effect that would kill it instantaneously without dealing damage, that effect is instead negated against the target, and the spell ends.
Delayed Blast Fireball;7;evocation;-; 1  action;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny ball of batguano and sulfur;1 minutes;-;A  beam  of yellow light flashes from  your pointing finger, A  beam  of yellow light flashes from  your pointing finger, then condenses to linger at a chosen point within range as a glowing bead for the duration. W hen the spell ends, either because your concentration is broken or because you decide to end it, the bead blossom s with a low roar into an explosion o f flame that spreads around corners. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes fire damage equal to the total accumulated damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The spells base damage is  12d6. If at the end of your turn the bead has not yet detonated, the damage increases by 1d6.If the glowing bead is touched before the interval has expired, the creature touching it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the spell ends immediately, causing the bead to erupt in flame. On a successful save, the creature can throw the bead up to 40 feet. W hen it strikes a creature or a solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.The fire dam ages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that arent being worn or carried.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the base damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 7th.
Demiplane;8;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;S;-;1 hour;-;You create a shadowy door on a flat solid surface that You create a shadowy door on a flat solid surface that you can see within range. The door is large enough to allow Medium creatures to pass through unhindered. W hen opened, the door leads to a demiplane that appears to be an empty room  30 feet in each dimension, made of w ood or stone. W hen the spell ends, the door disappears, and any creatures or objects inside the demiplane remain trapped there, as the door also disappears from the other side.Each time you cast this spell, you can create a new demiplane, or have the shadowy door connect to a demiplane you created with a previous casting of this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of this spell by another creature, you can have the shadowy door connect to its demiplane instead.
Destructive Wave;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;instant;-;You strike the ground, crea tin g a burst of divineYou strike the ground, crea tin g a burst of divineen ergy that ripples ou tward from you. E a ch creatureyou ch oose within 30 feet of you m ust su cceed on aConstitution saving th row or take 5d6 thunder dam age,as well as 5d6 radiant or n ecrotic da m age (you r choice),and be k n ock ed prone. A creatu re that su cceeds onits saving th row takes h a lf as m u ch da m age and isn’tkn ock ed prone.
Detect Evil and Good;1;divination;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;For the duration, you know if there is an aberration, For the duration, you know if there is an aberration, celestial, elemental, fey, fiend, or undead within 30 feet of you, as well as where the creature is located. Similarly, you know if there is a place or object within 30 feet of you that has been magically consecrated or desecrated.The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked by 1  foot of stone,  1  inch o f com m on metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
Detect Magic;1;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;For the duration, you sense the presence of magic For the duration, you sense the presence of magic within 30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn its school of magic, if any.The spell can penetrate m ost barriers, but it is blocked by 1  foot of stone,  1  inch of com m on metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
Detect Poison and Disease;1;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a yew leaf;concentration; up to  10 minutes;For the duration, you can sense the presence and For the duration, you can sense the presence and location of poisons, poisonous creatures, and diseases within 30 feet of you. You also identify the kind of poison, poisonous creature, or disease in each case.The spell can penetrate m ost barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot of stone,  1 inch of com m on metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of w ood or dirt.
Detect Thoughts;2;divination;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a copper piece;1 minutes;-;For the duration, you can read the thoughts o f certain creatures. W hen you cast the spell and as your action on each turn until the spell ends, you can focus your mind on any one creature that you can see within 30 feet of you. If the creature you choose has an Intelligence of3  or lower or doesnt speak any language, the creature is unaffected.You initially learn the surface thoughts of the creaturewhat is most on its mind in that moment. As an action, you can either shift your attention to another creatures thoughts or attempt to probe deeper into the sam e creatures mind. If you probe deeper, the target must make a W isdom  saving throw. If it fails, you gain insight into its reasoning (if any), its emotional state, and som ething that loom s large in its mind (such as som ething it w orries over, loves, or hates). If it succeeds, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows that you are probing into its mind, and unless you shift your attention to another creatures thoughts, the creature can use its action on its turn to make an Intelligence check contested by your Intelligence check if it succeeds, the spell ends.Questions verbally directed at the target creature naturally shape the course of its thoughts, so this spell is particularly effective as part of an interrogation.You can also use this spell to detect the presence of thinking creatures you cant see. W hen you cast the spell or as your action during the duration, you can search for thoughts within 30 feet of you. The spell can penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock,  2 inches o f any metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead blocks you. You cant detect a creature with an Intelligence of 3 or lower or one that doesnt speak any language.Once you detect the presence of a creature in this way, you can read its thoughts for the rest of the duration as described above, even if you cant see it, but it must still be within range.
Dimension Door;4;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;500 feet;V;-;instant;-;You teleport yourself from  your current location to any You teleport yourself from  your current location to any other spot within range. You arrive at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe by stating distance and direction, such as “ 200 feet straight downward” or “upward to the northwest at a 45-degree angle, 300 feet.”You can bring along objects as long as their weight doesnt exceed what you can carry. You can also bring one willing creature of your size or smaller w ho is carrying gear up to its carrying capacity. The creature must be within 5 feet of you when you cast this spell.If you w ould arrive in a place already occupied by an object or a creature, you and any creature traveling with you each take 4d6 force damage, and the spell fails to teleport you.
Disguise Self;1;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You make yourselfincluding your clothing, armor, You make yourselfincluding your clothing, armor, weapons, and other belongings on your personlook different until the spell ends or until you use your action to dism iss it. You can seem   1  foot shorter or taller and can appear thin, fat, or in between. You cant change your body type, so you must adopt a form  that has the sam e basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of the illusion is up to you.The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell to add a hat to your outfit, objects pass through the hat, and anyone w ho touches it would feel nothing or would feel your head and hair. If you use this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand of som eone who reaches out to touch you would bump into you while it was seem ingly still in midair.To discern that you are disguised, a creature can use its action to inspect your appearance and must succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC.
Disintegrate;6;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a lodestone and a pinch of dust;instant;-;A thin green ray springs from your pointing finger to a A thin green ray springs from your pointing finger to a target that you can see within range. The target can be a creature, an object, or a creation of magical force, such as the wall created by wall o f force.A creature targeted by this spell must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 10d6 + 40 force damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated.A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell.This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or smaller nonm agical object or a creation of magical force. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of force, this spell disintegrates a  10-foot-cube portion of it. A m agic item is unaffected by this spell.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by 3d6 for each slot level above 6th.
Dispel Evil and Good;5;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(holy water or powderedsilver and iron;1 minutes;-;Shim m ering energy surrounds and protects you from Shim m ering energy surrounds and protects you from fey, undead, and creatures originating from beyond the Material Plane. For the duration, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.You can end the spell early by using either of the following special functions.Break Enchantment. As your action, you touch a creature you can reach that is charmed, frightened, or possessed by a celestial, an elemental, a fey, a fiend, or an undead. The creature you touch is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed by such creatures.Dismissal. As your action, make a melee spell attack against a celestial, an elemental, a fey, a fiend, or an undead you can reach. On a hit, you attempt to drive the creature back to its home plane. The creature must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its home plane (if it isnt there already). If they arent on their hom e plane, undead are sent to the Shadowfell, and fey are sent to the Feywild.
Dispel Magic;3;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within range. Any spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends. For each spell of 4th level or higher on the target, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10 + the spells level. On a successful check, the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you automatically end the effects of a spell on the target if the spells level is equal to or less than the level o f the spell slot you used.
Dissonant Whispers;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You whisper a discordant melody that only one creature You whisper a discordant melody that only one creature of your choice within range can hear, wracking it with terrible pain. The target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 psychic damage and must immediately use its reaction, if available, to move as far as its speed allows away from you. The creature doesnt move into obviously dangerous ground, such as a fire or a pit. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesnt have to move away. A deafened creature automatically succeeds on the save.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above  1st.
Divination;4;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(incense and a sacrificial offeringappropriate to your religion, together worth at least 25gp, which the spell consum es;instant;-;Your magic and an offering put you in contact with Your magic and an offering put you in contact with a god or a gods servants. You ask a single question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The DM offers a truthful reply. The reply might be a short phrase, a cryptic rhyme, or an omen.The spell doesnt take into account any possible circum stances that might change the outcome, such as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of a companion.If you cast the spell two or m ore times before finishing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.
Divine  Favor;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Your prayer em powers you with divine radiance. Until Your prayer em powers you with divine radiance. Until the spell ends, your weapon attacks deal an extra  1d4 radiant damage on a hit.
Divine Word;7;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V;-;instant;-;You utter a divine word, im bued with the power that You utter a divine word, im bued with the power that shaped the world at the dawn of creation. C hoose any number of creatures you can see within range. Each creature that can hear you must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature suffers an effect based on its current hit points:•  50 hit points or fewer: deafened for 1  minute•  40 hit points or fewer: deafened and blinded for 10 minutesfor 1  hour•  30 hit points or fewer: blinded, deafened, and stunned •  20 hit points or fewer: killed instantlyRegardless of its current hit points, a celestial, an elemental, a fey, or a fiend that fails its save is forced back to its plane of origin (if it isnt there already) and cant return to your current plane for 24 hours by any means short of a wish spell.
Dominate Beast;4;enchantment;-; 1  action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to beguile a beast that you can see within You attempt to beguile a beast that you can see within range. It must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be charm ed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.W hile the beast is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the sam e plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue com m ands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature com pletes the order and doesnt receive further direction from  you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.You can use your action to take total and precise control o f the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesnt do anything that you dont allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new W isdom  saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell with a 5th level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to  10 minutes. W hen you use a 6th level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to  1  hour. W hen you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.
Dominate Monster;8;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You attempt to beguile a creature that you can see You attempt to beguile a creature that you can see within range. It must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be charm ed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.W hile the creature is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue com m ands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature com pletes the order and doesnt receive further direction from  you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end o f your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesnt do anything that you dont allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new W isdom  saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell with a 9th level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.
Dominate Person;5;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to beguile a humanoid that you can see You attempt to beguile a humanoid that you can see within range. It must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be charm ed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.W hile the target is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue com m ands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,”  “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature com pletes the order and doesnt receive further direction from  you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesnt do anything that you dont allow it to do. During this time you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new W isdom  saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a 6th level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to  10 minutes. W hen you use a 7th level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to  1  hour. W hen you use a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.
Drawmijs Instant Summons;6;conjuration;True;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(a sapphire w orth 1,000 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You touch an object weighing  10 pounds or less w hose You touch an object weighing  10 pounds or less w hose longest dim ension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an invisible mark on its surface and invisibly inscribes the name of the item on the sapphire you use as the material component. Each time you cast this spell, you must use a different sapphire.At any time thereafter, you can use your action to speak the items name and crush the sapphire. The item instantly appears in your hand regardless of physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.If another creature is holding or carrying the item, crushing the sapphire doesnt transport the item to you, but instead you learn who the creature possessing the object is and roughly where that creature is located at that moment.Dispel magic or a similar effect successfully applied to the sapphire ends this spells effect.
Dream;5;illusion;-;1 minute;-;special;V,S,M;(a handful of sand, a dab of ink,and a writing quill plucked from a sleeping bird;8 hours;-;This spell shapes a creatures dreams. Choose a This spell shapes a creatures dreams. Choose a creature known to you as the target of this spell. The target must be on the same plane of existence as you. Creatures that dont sleep, such as elves, cant be contacted by this spell. You, or a willing creature you touch, enters a trance state, acting as a messenger. W hile in the trance, the m essenger is aware of his or her surroundings, but cant take actions or move.If the target is asleep, the m essenger appears in the targets dream s and can converse with the target as long as it remains asleep, through the duration of the spell. The m essenger can also shape the environment of the dream, creating landscapes, objects, and other images. The m essenger can emerge from the trance at any time, ending the effect of the spell early. The target recalls the dream perfectly upon waking. If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the m essenger knows it, and can either end the trance (and the spell) or wait for the target to fall asleep, at which point the m essenger appears in the targets dreams.You can make the m essenger appear monstrous and terrifying to the target. If you do, the m essenger can deliver a m essage of no m ore than ten words and then the target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, echoes of the phantasmal monstrosity spawn a nightmare that lasts the duration of the targets sleep and prevents the target from gaining any benefit from that rest. In addition, when the target wakes up, it takes 3d6 psychic damage.If you have a body part, lock of hair, clipping from a nail, or similar portion of the targets body, the target m akes its saving throw with disadvantage.
Druidcraft;0;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;W hispering to the spirits of nature, you create one o f the W hispering to the spirits of nature, you create one o f the following effects within range:•  You create a tiny, harm less sensory effect that predicts what the weather will be at your location for the next 24 hours. The effect might manifest as a golden orbfor clear skies, a cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so on. This effect persists for  1  round.•  You instantly make a flower blossom , a seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.•  You create an instantaneous, harm less sensory effect, such as falling leaves, a puff of wind, the sound of a small animal, or the faint odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot cube.•  You instantly light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
Earthquake;8;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;500 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch o f dirt, a piece of rock,and a lump of clay;1 minutes;-;You create a seism ic disturbance at a point on the You create a seism ic disturbance at a point on the ground that you can see within range. For the duration, an intense tremor rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle centered on that point and shakes creatures and structures in contact with the ground in that area.The ground in the area becom es difficult terrain.Each creature on the ground that is concentrating must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creatures concentration is broken.W hen you cast this spell and at the end of each turn you spend concentrating on it, each creature on the ground in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is knocked prone.This spell can have additional effects depending on the terrain in the area, as determined by the DM.Fissures.  Fissures open throughout the spells area at the start of your next turn after you cast the spell. A total of 1d6 such fissures open in locations chosen by the DM. Each is  1d10 x  10 feet deep,  10 feet wide, and extends from one edge of the spells area to the opposite side.A creature standing on a spot where a fissure opens must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves m oves with the fissures edge as it opens.A fissure that opens beneath a structure causes it to automatically collapse (see below).Structures. The tremor deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in the area when you cast the spell and at the start of each of your turns until the spell ends. If a structure drops to 0 hit points, it collapses and potentially dam ages nearby creatures. A creature within half the distance of a structures height must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 5d6 bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to escape. The DM can adjust the DC higher or lower, depending on the nature of the rubble. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and doesnt fall prone or becom e buried.
Eldritch Blast;0;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A beam  of crackling energy streaks toward a creature A beam  of crackling energy streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1dlO force damage.The spell creates m ore than one beam  when you reach higher levels: two beam s at 5th level, three beam s at 11th level, and four beam s at 17th level. You can direct the beam s at the same target or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for each beam.
Elemental Weapon;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A nonm agical w eapon you touch becom es a magic A nonm agical w eapon you touch becom es a magic weapon. Choose one o f the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. For the duration, the weapon has a +1  bonus to attack rolls and deals an extra  1d4 damage of the chosen type when it hits.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th or 6th level, the bonus to attack rolls increases to +2 and the extra damage increases to 2d4. W hen you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bonus increases to +3 and the extra damage increases to 3d4.
Enhance Ability;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(fur or a feather from a beast;1 hour;-;You touch a creature and bestow upon it a magical You touch a creature and bestow upon it a magical enhancement. Choose one of the following effects the target gains that effect until the spell ends.Bears Endurance. The target has advantage on Constitution checks. It also gains 2d6 temporary hit points, which are lost when the spell ends.Bulls Strength. The target has advantage on Strength checks, and his or her carrying capacity doubles.Cats Grace. The target has advantage on Dexterity checks. It also doesnt take damage from falling 20 feet or less if it isnt incapacitated.Eagles Splendor. The target has advantage on At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.Charisma checks.Intelligence checks.W isdom  checks.Foxs Cunning. The target has advantage on Owls Wisdom. The target has advantage on 
Enlarge/Reduce;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch of powdered iron;1 minutes;-;You cause a creature or an object you can see within You cause a creature or an object you can see within range to grow larger or smaller for the duration. Choose either a creature or an object that is neither worn nor carried. If the target is unwilling, it can make a Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell has no effect.If the target is a creature, everything it is w earing and carrying changes size with it. Any item dropped by an affected creature returns to normal size at once.Enlarge. The targets size doubles in all dimensions, and its weight is multiplied by eight. This growth increases its size by one categoryfrom Medium to Large, for example. If there isnt enough room  for the target to double its size, the creature or object attains the maximum possible size in the space available.Until the spell ends, the target also has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The targets w eapons also grow to match its new size. W hile these weapons are enlarged, the targets attacks with them deal  1d4 extra damage.Reduce. The targets size is halved in all dimensions, and its weight is reduced to one-eighth of normal. This reduction decreases its size by one categoryfrom Medium to Small, for example. Until the spell ends, the target also has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The targets weapons also shrink to match its new size. W hile these w eapons are reduced, the targets attacks with them deal  1d4 less damage (this cant reduce the damage below  1).
Ensnaring  Strike;1;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a w eapon attack The next time you hit a creature with a w eapon attack before this spell ends, a writhing m ass of thorny vines appears at the point of impact, and the target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the magical vines until the spell ends. A Large or larger creature has advantage on this saving throw. If the target succeeds on the save, the vines shrivel away.W hile restrained by this spell, the target takes 1d6 piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature restrained by the vines or one that can touch the creature can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, the target is freed.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
Entangle;1;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Grasping w eeds and vines sprout from the ground in a Grasping w eeds and vines sprout from the ground in a 20-foot square starting from  a point within range. For the duration, these plants turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.A creature in the area when you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling plants until the spell ends. A creature restrained by the plants can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.W hen the spell ends, the conjured plants wilt away.
Enthrall;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You weave a distracting string of words, causing You weave a distracting string of words, causing creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you to make a W isdom  saving throw. Any creature that cant be charm ed succeeds on this saving throw automatically, and if you or your com panions are fighting a creature, it has advantage on the save. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on W isdom  (Perception) checks made to perceive any creature other than you until the spell ends or until the target can no longer hear you. The spell ends if you are incapacitated or can no longer speak.
Etherealness;7;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You step into the border regions of the Ethereal Plane, You step into the border regions of the Ethereal Plane, in the area where it overlaps with your current plane. You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration or until you use your action to dism iss the spell. During this time, you can move in any direction. If you move up or down, every foot of movement costs an extra foot. You can see and hear the plane you originated from, but everything there looks gray, and you cant see anything m ore than 60 feet away.W hile on the Ethereal Plane, you can only affect and be affected by other creatures on that plane. Creatures that arent on the Ethereal Plane cant perceive you and cant interact with you, unless a special ability or magic has given them the ability to do so.You ignore all objects and effects that arent on the Ethereal Plane, allowing you to move through objects you perceive on the plane you originated from.W hen the spell ends, you immediately return to the plane you originated from in the spot you currently occupy. If you occupy the same spot as a solid object or creature when this happens, you are immediately shunted to the nearest unoccupied space that you can occupy and take force damage equal to twice the number of feet you are moved.This spell has no effect if you cast it while you are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesnt border it, such as one o f the Outer Planes.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 8th level or higher, you can target up to three willing creatures (including you) for each slot level above 7th. The creatures must be within  10 feet of you when you cast the spell.
Evards Black Tentacles;4;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(a piece of tentacle from  a giantoctopus or a giant squid;1 minutes;-;Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on ground that you can see within range. For the duration, these tentacles turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.W hen a creature enters the affected area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 3d6 bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the tentacles until the spell ends. A creature that starts its turn in the area and is already restrained by the tentacles takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage.A creature restrained by the tentacles can use its action to make a Strength or Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.
Expeditious Retreat;1;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;This spell allows you to move at an incredible pace. This spell allows you to move at an incredible pace. W hen you cast this spell, and then as a bonus action on each of your turns until the spell ends, you can take the Dash action.
Eyebite;6;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;For the spells duration, your eyes becom e an inky void For the spells duration, your eyes becom e an inky void im bued with dread power. One creature of your choice within 60 feet o f you that you can see must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be affected by one of the following effects of your choice for the duration. Oneach of your turns until the spell ends, you can use your action to target another creature but cant target a creature again if it has succeeded on a saving throw against this casting of eyebite.A sleep. The target falls unconscious. It w akes up if it takes any damage or if another creature uses its action to shake the sleeper awake.Panicked. The target is frightened of you. On each of its turns, the frightened creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest and shortest available route, unless there is nowhere to move. If the target m oves to a place at least 60 feet away from  you where it can no longer see you, this effect ends.Sickened. The target has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. At the end of each of its turns, it can make another W isdom  saving throw. If it succeeds, the effect ends.
Fabricate;4;transmutation;-;10 minutes;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You convert raw materials into products of the same You convert raw materials into products of the same material. For example, you can fabricate a w ooden bridge from a clump o f trees, a rope from a patch of hemp, and clothes from flax or wool.Choose raw materials that you can see within range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object (contained within a  10-foot cube, or eight connected 5-foot cubes), given a sufficient quantity of raw material. If you are working with metal, stone, or another mineral substance, however, the fabricated object can be no larger than Medium (contained within a single 5-foot cube). The quality of objects made by the spell is com m ensurate with  the quality of the raw materials.Creatures or magic items cant be created or transmuted by this spell. You also cant use it to create items that ordinarily require a high degree of craftsmanship, such as jewelry, weapons, glass, or armor, unless you have proficiency with the type of artisans tools used to craft such objects.
Faerie  Fire;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;Each object in a 20-foot cube within range is outlined in Each object in a 20-foot cube within range is outlined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice). Any creature in the area when the spell is cast is also outlined in light if it fails a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects and affected creatures shed dim light in a 10-foot radius.Any attack roll against an affected creature or object has advantage if the attacker can see it, and the affected creature or object cant benefit from being invisible.
False Life;1;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a small amount of alcohol ordistilled spirits;1 hour;-;Bolstering yourself with a necromantic facsimile of life, Bolstering yourself with a necromantic facsimile of life, you gain  1d4 + 4 temporary hit points for the duration.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you gain 5 additional temporary hit points for each slot level above  1st.
Fear;3;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a white feather or theheart of a hen;1 minutes;-;You project a phantasmal image of a creatures worst You project a phantasmal image of a creatures worst fears. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or drop whatever it is holding and becom e frightened for the duration.W hile frightened by this spell, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesnt have line of sight to you, the creature can make a W isdom  saving throw. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.
Feather Fall;1;transmutation;-;1 reaction; which you take when you or a creature within 60 feet of you falls ;60 feet;V,M;(a small feather or piece of down;1 minutes;-;Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A falling creatures rate of descent slows to 60 feet per round until the spell ends. If the creature lands before the spell ends, it takes no falling damage and can land on its feet, and the spell ends for that creature.
Feeblemind;8;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a handful of clay, crystal, glass,or mineral spheres;instant;-;You blast the mind of a creature that you can see within You blast the mind of a creature that you can see within range, attempting to shatter its intellect and personality. The target takes 4d6 psychic damage and must make an Intelligence saving throw.On a failed save, the creatures Intelligence and Charisma scores becom e  1. The creature cant cast spells, activate magic items, understand language, orcom m unicate in any intelligible way. The creature can, however, identify its friends, follow them, and even protect them.At the end of every 30 days, the creature can repeat its saving throw against this spell. If it succeeds on its saving throw, the spell ends.The spell can also be ended by greater restoration, heal, or wish.
Feign Death;3;necromancy;True; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pinch of graveyard dirt;1 hour;-;You touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic You touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic state that is indistinguishable from death.For the spells duration, or until you use an action to touch the target and dism iss the spell, the target appears dead to all outward inspection and to spells used to determine the targets status. The target is blinded and incapacitated, and its speed drops to 0.The target has resistance to all damage except psychic damage. If the target is diseased or poisoned when you cast the spell, or becom es diseased or poisoned while under the spells effect, the disease and poison have no effect until the spell ends.
Find  Familiar;1;conjuration;True;1 hour;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(10 gp worth of charcoal,incense, and herbs that must be consum ed by fire in abrass brazier;instant;-;You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes an You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes an animal form you choose: bat, cat, crab, frog (toad), hawk, lizard, octopus, owl, poisonous snake, fish (quipper), rat, raven, sea horse, spider, or weasel. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the familiar has the statistics o f the chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey, or fiend (your choice) instead of a beast.Your familiar acts independently of you, but it always obeys your com m ands. In combat, it rolls its own initiative and acts on its own turn. A familiar cant attack, but it can take other actions as normal.W hen the familiar drops to 0 hit points, it disappears, leaving behind no physical form. It reappears after you cast this spell again W hile your familiar is within  100 feet of you, you can communicate with it telepathically. Additionally, as an action, you can see through your familiars eyes and hear what it hears until the start of your next turn, gaining the benefits of any special senses that the familiar has. During this time, you are deaf and blind with regard to your own senses.As an action, you can temporarily dismiss your familiar. It disappears into a pocket dim ension where it awaits your sum m ons. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever. As an action while it is temporarily dismissed,you can cause it to reappear in any unoccupied space within 30 feet of you.You cant have m ore than one familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you already have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new form. C hoose one of the form s from the above list. Your familiar transforms into the chosen creature.Finally, when you cast a spell with a range o f touch, your familiar can deliver the spell as if it had cast the spell. Your familiar must be within  100 feet of you, and it must use its reaction to deliver the spell when you cast it. If the spell requires an attack roll, you use your attack modifier for the roll.
Find  Steed;2;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You sum m on a spirit that assum es the form of an You sum m on a spirit that assum es the form of an unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed, creating a long-lasting bond with it. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the steed takes on a form that you choose, such as a warhorse, a pony, a camel, an elk, or a mastiff. (Your DM might allow other animals to be sum m oned as steeds.) The steed has the statistics of the chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey, or fiend (your choice) instead of its normal type. Additionally, if your steed has an Intelligence of 5 or less, its Intelligence becom es 6, and it gains the ability to understand one language of your choice that you speak.Your steed serves you as a mount, both in combat and out, and you have an instinctive bond with it that allows you to fight as a seam less unit. W hile mounted on your steed, you can make any spell you cast that targets only you also target your steed.W hen the steed drops to 0 hit points, it disappears, leaving behind no physical form. You can also dismiss your steed at any time as an action, causing it to disappear. In either case, casting this spell again sum m ons the same steed, restored to its hit point maximum.W hile your steed is within  1  mile of you, you can com m unicate with it telepathically.You cant have m ore than one steed bonded by this spell at a time. As an action, you can release the steed from its bond at any time, causing it to disappear.
Find  the  Path;6;divination;-;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;(a set of divinatory toolssuchas bones, ivory sticks, cards, teeth, or carved runesworth  100 gp and an object from  the location youwish to find;concentration; up to  1  day;This spell allows you to find the shortest, m ost direct This spell allows you to find the shortest, m ost direct physical route to a specific fixed location that you are familiar with on the same plane o f existence. If youname a destination on another plane of existence, a destination that m oves (such as a mobile fortress), or a destination that isnt specific (such as “a green dragons lair”), the spell fails.For the duration, as long as you are on the same plane of existence as the destination, you know how far it is and in what direction it lies. W hile you are traveling there, whenever you are presented with a choice of paths along the way, you automatically determine which path is the shortest and m ost direct route (but not necessarily the safest route) to the destination.
Find Traps;2;divination;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You sense the presence of any trap within range that You sense the presence of any trap within range that is within line of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, includes anything that w ould inflict a sudden or unexpected effect you consider harmful or undesirable, which w as specifically intended as such by its creator. Thus, the spell would sense an area affected by the alarm spell, a glyph of warding, or a m echanical pit trap, but it w ould not reveal a natural w eakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hidden sinkhole.This spell merely reveals that a trap is present. You dont learn the location of each trap, but you do learn the general nature o f the danger posed by a trap you sense.
Finger of Death;7;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You send negative energy coursing through a creature You send negative energy coursing through a creature that you can see within range, causing it searing pain. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. It takes 7d8 + 30 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start of your next turn as a zom bie that is permanently under your com m and, following your verbal orders to the best of its ability.
Fire  Storm;7;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears in a location you choose within range. The area of the storm consists of up to ten  10-foot cubes, which you can arrange as you wish. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 7d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The fire damages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that arent being worn or carried.If you choose, plant life in the area is unaffected by this spell.
Fire Bolt;0;evocation;-; 1  action;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or object within You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or object within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes  1d10 fire damage. A flammable object hit by this spell ignites if it isnt being worn or carried.This spells damage increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10),  11th level (3d10), and  17th level (4d10).
Fire Shield;4;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a bit of phosphorus or a firefly;10 minutes;-;Thin and wispy flames wreathe your body for the Thin and wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration, shedding bright light in a  10-foot radius and dim light for an additional  10 feet. You can end the spell early by using an action to dismiss it.The flames provide you with a warm shield or a chill shield, as you choose. The warm  shield grants you resistance to cold damage, and the chill shield grants you resistance to fire damage.In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet of you hits you with a melee attack, the shield erupts with flame. The attacker takes 2d8 fire damage from a warm shield, or 2d8 cold damage from a cold shield.
Fireball;3;evocation;-;1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny ball of batguano and sulfur;instant;-;A bright streak flashes from  your pointing finger to a A bright streak flashes from  your pointing finger to a point you choose within range and then blossom s with a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 firedam age on a failed save, or half as much dam age on a successful one.The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable objects in the area that arent being worn or carried.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
Flame  Strike;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(pinch of sulfur;instant;-;A vertical colum n o f divine fire roars down from the A vertical colum n o f divine fire roars down from the heavens in a location you specify. Each creature in a  10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 4d6 fire damage and 4d6 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire damage or the radiant damage (your choice) increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 5th.
Flame Blade;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S,M;(leaf of sumac;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade is You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappears, but you can evoke the blade again as a bonus action.You can use your action to make a melee spell attack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 fire damage.The flaming blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional  10 feet.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for every two slot levels above 2nd.
Flaming Sphere;2;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of tallow, a pinch ofbrimstone, and a dusting of powdered iron;1 minutes;-;A 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire appears in an A 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire appears in an unoccupied space of your choice within range and lasts for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.As a bonus action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet. If you ram the sphere into a creature, that creature must make the saving throw against the spheres damage, and the sphere stops moving this turn.W hen you move the sphere, you can direct it over barriers up to 5 feet tall and jum p it across pits up to 10 feet wide. The sphere ignites flammable objects not being worn or carried, and it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
Flesh  to  Stone;6;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch of lime, water, and earth;1 minutes;-;You attempt to turn one creature that you can see within You attempt to turn one creature that you can see within range into stone. If the targets body is made of flesh, the creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it is restrained as its flesh begins to harden. On a successful save, the creature isnt affected.A creature restrained by this spell must make another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves against this spell three times, the spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turned to stone and subjected to the petrified condition for the duration. The successes and failures dont need to be consecutive keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.If the creature is physically broken while petrified, it suffers from  similar deformities if it reverts to its original state.If you maintain your concentration on this spell for the entire possible duration, the creature is turned to stone until the effect is removed.
Fly;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a w ing feather from any bird;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You touch a willing creature. The target gains a flying You touch a willing creature. The target gains a flying speed of 60 feet for the duration. W hen the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft, unless it can stop the fall.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.
Fog Cloud;1;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of fog centered on a You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of fog centered on a point within range. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 m iles per hour) disperses it.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radius of the fog increases by 20 feet for each slot level above  1st.
Forbiddance;6;abjuration;True;10 minutes;-;touch;V,S,M;(a sprinkling of holy water, rareincense, and powdered ruby worth at least  1,000 gp;1 day;-;You create a ward against magical travel that protects You create a ward against magical travel that protects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration, creatures cant teleport into the area or use portals, such as those created by the gate spell, to enter the area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel, and therefore prevents creatures from accessing the area by way of the Astral Plane, Ethereal Plane, Feywild, Shadowfell, or the plane shift spell.In addition, the spell dam ages types of creatures that you choose when you cast it. C hoose one or m ore o f the following: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. W hen a chosen creature enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature takes 5d10 radiant or necrotic damage (your choice when you cast this spell).W hen you cast this spell, you can designate a password. A creature that speaks the password as it enters the area takes no damage from the spell.The spells area cant overlap with the area of another forbiddance spell. If you cast forbiddance every day for 30 days in the same location, the spell lasts until it is dispelled, and the material com ponents are consum ed on the last casting.
Forcecage;7;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 100 feet;V,S,M;(ruby dust worth  1,500 gp;1 hour;-;An immobile, invisible, cube-shaped prison com posed of An immobile, invisible, cube-shaped prison com posed of magical force springs into existence around an area you choose within range. The prison can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose.A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet on a side and is made from  1/2-inch diameter bars spaced 1/2 inch apart.A prison in the shape of a box can be up to  10 feet on a side, creating a solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing through it and blocking any spells cast into or out from the area.W hen you cast the spell, any creature that is completely inside the cages area is trapped. Creatures only partially within the area, or those too large to fit inside the area, are pushed away from  the center of the area until they are completely outside the area.A creature inside the cage cant leave it by nonm agical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or interplanar travel to leave the cage, it must first make a Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature canuse that magic to exit the cage. On a failure, the creature cant exit the cage and wastes the use of the spell or effect. The cage also extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.This spell cant be dispelled by dispel magic.
Foresight;9;divination;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(a hummingbird feather;8 hours;-;You touch a willing creature and bestow  a limited ability You touch a willing creature and bestow  a limited ability to see into the immediate future. For the duration, the target cant be surprised and has advantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. Additionally, other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against the target for the duration.This spell immediately ends if you cast it again before its duration ends.
Freedom of Movement;4;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a leather strap, bound around thearm or a similar appendage;1 hour;-;You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the targets movement is unaffected by difficult terrain, and spells and other magical effects can neither reduce the targets speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed or restrained.The target can also spend 5 feet o f movement to automatically escape from  nonm agical restraints, such as manacles or a creature that has it grappled. Finally, being underwater im poses no penalties on the targets movement or attacks.
Friends;0;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;self;S,M;(a small amount of makeup appliedto the face as this spell is cast;1 minutes;-;For the duration, you have advantage on all Charisma For the duration, you have advantage on all Charisma checks directed at one creature of your choice that isnt hostile toward you. W hen the spell ends, the creature realizes that you used magic to influence its m ood and becom es hostile toward you. A creature prone to violence might attack you. Another creature might seek retribution in other ways (at the DM s discretion), depending on the nature of your interaction with it.
Gaseous Form;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a bit of gauze and aw isp of smoke;1 hour;-;You transform a willing creature you touch, along with You transform a willing creature you touch, along with everything its wearing and carrying, into a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends if the creature drops to0 hit points. An incorporeal creature isnt affected.W hile in this form, the targets only method of movement is a flying speed of 10 feet. The target can enter and occupy the space of another creature. The target has resistance to nonm agical damage, and it has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even m ere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target cant fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated.W hile in the form of a misty cloud, the target cant talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it w as carrying or holding cant be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. The target cant attack or cast spells.
Gate;9;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a diamond worth at least 5,000 gp;1 minutes;-;You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space you You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space you can see within range to a precise location on a different plane of existence. The portal is a circular opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diameter. You can orient the portal in any direction you choose. The portal lasts for the duration.The portal has a front and a back on each plane where it appears. Travel through the portal is possible only by moving through its front. Anything that does so is instantly transported to the other plane, appearing in the unoccupied space nearest to the portal.Deities and other planar rulers can prevent portals created by this spell from opening in their presence or anywhere within their domains.W hen you cast this spell, you can speak the name of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nickname doesnt work). If that creature is on a plane other than the one you are on, the portal opens in the named creatures immediate vicinity and draws the creature through it to the nearest unoccupied space on your side of the portal. You gain no special power over the creature, and it is free to act as the DM deem s appropriate. It might leave, attack you, or help you.
Geas;5;enchantment;-;1 minute;-;60 feet;V;-;30 days;-;You place a magical com m and on a creature that you You place a magical com m and on a creature that you can see within range, forcing it to carry out som eservice or refrain from som e action or course of activity as you decide. If the creature can understand you, it must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or becom e charm ed by you for the duration. W hile the creature is charm ed by you, it takes 5d10 psychic damage each time it acts in a manner directly counter to your instructions, but no m ore than once each day. A creature that cant understand you is unaffected by the spell.You can issue any com m and you choose, short of an activity that would result in certain death. Should you issue a suicidal com m and, the spell ends.You can end the spell early by using an action to dism iss it. A remove curse, greater restoration, or wish spell also ends it.A t H igher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 7th or 8th level, the duration is  1 year. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 9th level, the spell lasts until it is ended by one of the spells mentioned above.
Gentle Repose;2;necromancy;True; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pinch of salt and one copperpiece placed on each of the corpses eyes, which mustremain there for the duration;10 days;-;You touch a corpse or other remains. For the You touch a corpse or other remains. For the duration, the target is protected from  decay and cant becom e undead.The spell also effectively extends the time limit on raising the target from the dead, since days spent under the influence of this spell dont count against the time limit o f spells such as raise dead.
Giant Insect;4;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, five You transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, five wasps, or one scorpion within range into giant versions of their natural form s for the duration. A centipede becom es a giant centipede, a spider becom es a giant spider, a wasp becom es a giant wasp, and a scorpion becom es a giant scorpion.Each creature obeys your verbal com m ands, and in combat, they act on your turn each round. The DM has the statistics for these creatures and resolves their actions and movement.A creature remains in its giant size for the duration, until it drops to 0 hit points, or until you use an action to dism iss the effect on it.The DM might allow you to choose different targets. For example, if you transform a bee, its giant version might have the sam e statistics as a giant wasp.
Glibness;8;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;1 hour;-;Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma check, you can replace the number you roll with a 15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that would determine if you are telling the truth indicates that you are being truthful.
Globe of Invulnerability;6;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a glass or crystal bead thatshatters when the spell ends;1 minutes;-;An immobile, faintly shim m ering barrier springs into An immobile, faintly shim m ering barrier springs into existence in a 10-foot radius around you and remains for the duration.Any spell of 5th level or lower cast from outside the barrier cant affect creatures or objects within it, even if the spell is cast using a higher level spell slot. Such a spell can target creatures and objects within the barrier, but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the area within the barrier is excluded from  the areas affected by such spells.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the barrier blocks spells of one level higher for each slot level above 6th.
Glyph of Warding;3;abjuration;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(incense and powdered diamondworth at least 200 gp, which the spell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;W hen you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that W hen you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that harms other creatures, either upon a surface (such as a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest) to conceal the glyph. If you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place if the object is m oved m ore than  10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.The glyph is nearly invisible and requires a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to be found.You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most com m ontriggers include opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing or reading the glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.You can further refine the trigger so the spell activates only under certain circum stances or according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight), creature kind (for example, the ward could be set to affect aberrations or drow), or alignment. You can also set conditions for creatures that dont trigger the glyph, such as those w ho say a certain password.W hen you inscribe the glyph, choose explosive runes or a spell glyph.Explosive Runes. W hen triggered, the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the glyph. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 5d8 acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage on a failed saving throw (your choice when you create the glyph), or half as much damage on a successful one.Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of 3rd level or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of creating the glyph. The spell must target a single creature or an area. The spell being stored has no immediate effect when cast in this way. W hen the glyph is triggered, the stored spell is cast. If the spell has a target, it targets the creature that triggered the glyph.If the spell affects an area, the area is centered on that creature. If the spell sum m ons hostile creatures or creates harmful objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires concentration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage of an explosive runes glyph increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd. If you create a spell glyph, you can store any spell of up to the same level as the slot you use for the glyph o f warding.
Goodberry;1;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a sprig of mistletoe;instant;-;Up to ten berries appear in your hand and are infused Up to ten berries appear in your hand and are infused with magic for the duration. A creature can use its action to eat one berry. Eating a berry restores  1  hit point, and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.The berries lose their potency if they have not been consum ed within 24 hours of the casting of this spell.
Grasping Vine;4;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You conjure a vine that sprouts from the ground in an unoccupied space o f your choice that you can see within range. W hen you cast this spell, you can direct the vine to lash out at a creature within 30 feet of it that you can see. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be pulled 20 feet directly toward the vine.Until the spell ends, you can direct the vine to lash out at the sam e creature or another one as a bonus action on each o f your turns.
Grease;1;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a bit o f pork rind or butter;1 minutes;-;Slick grease covers the ground in a  10-foot square Slick grease covers the ground in a  10-foot square centered on a point within range and turns it into difficult terrain for the duration.W hen the grease appears, each creature standing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A creature that enters the area or ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone.
Greater Invisibility;4;illusion;-;1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You or a creature you touch becom es invisible until the You or a creature you touch becom es invisible until the spell ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is invisible as long as it is on the targets person.
Greater Restoration;5;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(diamond dust w orth at least  100gp, which the spell consum es;instant;-;You imbue a creature you touch with positive energy to You imbue a creature you touch with positive energy to undo a debilitating effect. You can reduce the targets exhaustion level by one, or end one of the following effects on the target:•  One effect that charm ed or petrified the target•  One curse, including the targets attunement to a cursed magic item•  Any reduction to one of the targets ability scores•  One effect reducing the targets hit point maximum
Guardian  of  Faith;4;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V;-;8 hours;-;A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for the A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for the duration in an unoccupied space of your choice that youcan see within range. The guardian occupies that space and is indistinct except for a gleam ing sword and shield em blazoned with the symbol of your deity.Any creature hostile to you that m oves to a space within  10 feet of the guardian for the first time on a turn must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 20 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.
Guards and Wards;6;abjuration;-;10 minutes;-;touch;V,S,M;(burning incense, a smallmeasure of brim stone and oil, a knotted string, asmall amount of umber hulk blood, and a small silverrod worth at least  10 gp;24 hours;-;You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feet You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feet of floor space (an area 50 feet square, or one hundred 5-foot squares or twenty-five  10-foot squares). The warded area can be up to 20 feet tall, and shaped as you desire. You can ward several stories of a stronghold by dividing the area am ong them, as long as you can walk into each contiguous area while you are casting the spell.W hen you cast this spell, you can specify individuals that are unaffected by any or all of the effects that you choose. You can also specify a password that, when spoken aloud, makes the speaker immune to these effects.Guards and wards creates the following effects within the warded area.Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, making them heavily obscured. In addition, at each intersection or branching passage offering a choice of direction, there is a 50 percent chance that a creature other than you will believe it is going in the opposite direction from the one it chooses.Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically locked, as if sealed by an arcane lock spell. In addition, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion (equivalent to the illusory object function of the minor illusion spell) to make them appear as plain sections of wall.Stairs. W ebs fill all stairs in the warded area from top to bottom, as the web spell. These strands regrow in  10 minutes if they are burned or torn away while guards and wards lasts.Other Spell Effect. You can place your choice of one of the following magical effects within the warded area of the stronghold.•  Place dancing lights in four corridors. You can desig­nate a simple program  that the lights repeat as long as guards and wards lasts.•  Place magic mouth in two locations.•  Place stinking cloud in two locations. The vapors appear in the places you designate they return within 10 minutes if dispersed by wind while guards and wards lasts.•  Place a constant gust of wind in one corridor or room.•  Place a suggestion in one location. You select an area of up to 5 feet square, and any creature that enters or passes through the area receives the suggestion mentally.The whole warded area radiates magic. A dispel magic cast on a specific effect, if successful, removes only that effect.You can create a permanently guarded and warded structure by casting this spell there every day for one year.
Guidance;0;divination;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You touch one w illing creature. Once before the spell You touch one w illing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one ability check of its choice. It can roll the die before or after making the ability check. The spell then ends.
Guiding Bolt;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;A flash of light streaks toward a creature of your choice A flash of light streaks toward a creature of your choice within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against this target before the end of your next turn has advantage, thanks to the mystical dim light glittering on the target until then.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above  1st.
Gust of Wind;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a legum e seed;1 minutes;-;A line of strong wind 60 feet long and  10 feet wide A line of strong wind 60 feet long and  10 feet wide blasts from you in a direction you choose for the spells duration. Each creature that starts its turn in the line must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away from you in a direction following the line.Any creature in the line must spend 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot it m oves when moving closer to you.The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames in the area. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent chance to extinguish them.As a bonus action on each of your turns before the spell ends, you can change the direction in which the line blasts from you.
Hail of Thorns;1;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon The next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack before the spell ends, this spell creates a rain o f thorns that sprouts from your ranged weapon or ammunition. In addition to the norm al effect of the attack, the target of the attack and each creature within5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 1dlO piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above  1st (to a maximum of 6 d10).
Hallow;5;evocation;-;24 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;(herbs, oils, and incense worth atleast 1,000 gp, which the spell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You touch a point and infuse an area around it with holy You touch a point and infuse an area around it with holy (or unholy) power. The area can have a radius up to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes an area already under the effect a hallow spell. The affected area is subject to the following effects.First, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead cant enter the area, nor can such creatures charm, frighten, or possess creatures within it. Any creature charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed upon entering the area. You can exclude one or m ore of those types of creatures from this effect.Second, you can bind an extra effect to the area. C hoose the effect from the following list, or choose an effect offered by the DM. Som e of these effects apply to creatures in the area you can designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures that follow a specific deity or leader, or creatures of a specific sort, such as ores or trolls. W hen a creature that would be affected enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it can make a Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature ignores the extra effect until it leaves the area.Courage. Affected creatures cant be frightened while in the area.Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as well as magical light created by spells of a lower level than the slot you used to cast this spell, cant illuminate the area.Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical darkness created by spells of a lower level than the slot you used to cast this spell cant extinguish the light.Energy Protection. Affected creatures in the area have resistance to one damage type of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.Energy Vulnerability. Affected creatures in the area have vulnerability to one damage type of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.Everlasting Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area cant be turned into undead.Extradimensional Interference. Affected creatures cant move or travel using teleportation or by extradimensional or interplanar means.Fear. Affected creatures are frightened while in the area.Silence. No sound can emanate from within the area, and no sound can reach into it.Tongues. Affected creatures can com m unicate with any other creature in the area, even if they dont share a com m on language.
Hallucinatory Terrain;4;illusion;-;10 minutes;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a stone, a twig, and a bitof green plant;24 hours;-;You make natural terrain in a 150-foot cube in range You make natural terrain in a 150-foot cube in range look, sound, and smell like som e other sort of natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be made to resem ble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or som e other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem  like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and sm ooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment, and creatures within the area arent changed in appearance.The tactile characteristics of the terrain are unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely to see through the illusion. If the difference isnt obvious by touch, a creature carefully exam ining the illusion can attempt an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve it. A creature who discerns the illusion for what it is, sees it as a vague image superim posed on the terrain.
Harm;6;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You unleash a virulent disease on a creature that You unleash a virulent disease on a creature that you can see within range. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 14d6 necrotic damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. The damage cant reduce the targets hit points below  1. If the target fails the saving throw, its hit point maximum is reduced for 1  hour by an amount equal to the necrotic damage it took. Any effect that removes a disease allows a creatures hit point maximum to return to normal before that time passes.
Haste;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a shaving of licorice root;1 minutes;-;C hoose a willing creature that you can see within range. C hoose a willing creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, the targets speed is doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to AC, it has advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each of its turns. That action can be used only to take the Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object action.W hen the spell ends, the target cant move or take actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lethargy sw eeps over it.
Heal;6;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;C hoose a creature that you can see within range. A C hoose a creature that you can see within range. A surge of positive energy washes through the creature, causing it to regain 70 hit points. This spell also ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting the target. This spell has no effect on constructs or undead.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of healing increases by 10 for each slot level above 6th.
Healing Word;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;A creature of your choice that you can see within range A creature of your choice that you can see within range regains hit points equal to  1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above  1st.
Heat Metal;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a piece of iron and a flame;1 minutes;-;C hoose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal C hoose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal weapon or a suit o f heavy or medium metal armor, that you can see within range. You cause the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in physical contact with the object takes 2d8 fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your subsequent turns to cause this damage again.If a creature is holding or wearing the object and takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it can. If it doesnt drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start of your next turn.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Hellish Rebuke;1;evocation;-;1 reaction; which you take in response to being damaged by a creature within 60 feet of you that you can see ;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You point your finger, and the creature that damaged You point your finger, and the creature that damaged you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 2d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1dlO for each slot level above  1st.
Heroes Feast;6;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a gem-encrusted bowl worth atleast  1,000 gp, which the spell consum es;instant;-;You bring forth a great feast, including magnificent You bring forth a great feast, including magnificent food and drink. The feast takes  1  hour to consum e and disappears at the end o f that time, and the beneficial effects dont set in until this hour is over. Up to twelve other creatures can partake o f the feast.A creature that partakes of the feast gains several benefits. The creature is cured of all diseases and poison, becom es immune to poison and being frightened, and makes all W isdom  saving throws with advantage. Its hit point maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the same number of hit points. These benefits last for 24 hours.
Heroism;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A willing creature you touch is imbued with bravery.A willing creature you touch is imbued with bravery.Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each o f its turns. W hen the spell ends, the target loses any remaining temporary hit points from this spell.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above  1st.
Hex;1;enchantment;-;1 bonus action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(the petrified eye of a newt;1 hour;-;You place a curse on a creature that you can see within You place a curse on a creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra  1d6 necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit it with an attack. Also, choose one ability when you cast the spell. The target has disadvantage on ability checks made with the chosen ability.If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn o f yours to curse a new creature.A remove curse cast on the target ends this spell early. At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. W hen you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
Hold Monster;5;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(a small, straight piece of iron;1 minutes;-;C hoose a creature that you can see within range. The C hoose a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be paralyzed for the duration. This spell has no effect on undead. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another W isdom  saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 5th. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Hold Person;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a small, straight piece o f iron;1 minutes;-;C hoose a humanoid that you can see within range.C hoose a humanoid that you can see within range.The target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be paralyzed for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another W isdom  saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional humanoid for each slot level above 2nd. The humanoids must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Holy Aura;8;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a tiny reliquary worth at least1,000  gp containing a sacred relic, such as a scrap ofcloth from a saints robe or a piece of parchment froma religious text;1 minutes;-;Divine light washes out from  you and coalesces Divine light washes out from  you and coalesces in a soft radiance in a 30-foot radius around you. Creatures of your choice in that radius when you cast this spell shed dim light in a 5-foot radius and have advantage on all saving throws, and other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against them until the spell ends. In addition, when a fiend or an undead hits an affected creature with a melee attack, the aura flashes with brilliant light. The attacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the spell ends.
Hunger of Hadar;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a pickled octopus tentacle;1 minutes;-;You open a gateway to the dark between the stars, a You open a gateway to the dark between the stars, a region infested with unknown horrors. A 20-foot-radius sphere of blackness and bitter cold appears, centered on a point with range and lasting for the duration. This void is filled with a cacophony of soft whispers and slurping noises that can be heard up to 30 feet away. No light, m agical or otherwise, can illuminate the area, and creatures fully within the area are blinded.The void creates a warp in the fabric of space, and the area is difficult terrain. Any creature that starts its turn in the area takes 2d6 cold damage. Any creature that ends its turn in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 acid damage as milky, otherworldly tentacles rub against it.
Hunters Mark;1;divination;-;1 bonus action;-;90 feet;V;-;1 hour;-;You choose a creature you can see within range and You choose a creature you can see within range and mystically mark it as your quarry. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra  1d6 damage to the target whenever you hit it with a weapon attack, and you have advantage on any W isdom  (Perception) or W isdom  (Survival) check you make to find it. If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. W hen you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
Hypnotic  Pattern;3;illusion;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;S,M;(a glowing stick of incense or acrystal vial filled with phosphorescent material;1 minutes;-;You create a twisting pattern of colors that weaves You create a twisting pattern of colors that weaves through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range.The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each creature in the area w ho sees the pattern must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becom es charm ed for the duration. W hile charm ed by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0.The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes any damage or if som eone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor.
Ice  Storm;4;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch of dust and a fewdrops of water;instant;-;A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range. Each creature in the cylinder must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.Hailstones turn the storms area of effect into difficult terrain until the end o f your next turn.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the bludgeoning damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.
Identify;1;divination;True;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pearl worth at least  100 gp andan owl feather;instant;-;You choose one object that you must touch throughout You choose one object that you must touch throughout the casting of the spell. If it is a magic item or som e other magic-imbued object, you learn its properties and how to use them, whether it requires attunement to use, and how many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any spells are affecting the item and what they are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn which spell created it.If you instead touch a creature throughout the casting, you learn what spells, if any, are currently affecting it.
Illusory Script;1;illusion;True;1 minute;-;touch;S,M;(a lead-based ink worth at least 10gp, which the spell consumes;10 days;-;You write on parchm ent, paper, or som e oth er suitableYou write on parchm ent, paper, or som e oth er suitablewritin g m aterial and im bu e it with a potent illusion thatlasts for the duration.To you and any crea tu res you design ate w h en youcast the spell, the writin g appears norm al, written inyour hand, and con veys whatever m ea n in g you intendedwh en you wrote the text. To all others, the writingappears as if it were written in an u n kn own or m agicalscript that is unintelligible. Alternatively, you can ca u sethe writin g to appear to be an entirely different m essa ge,written in a different hand and language, th ou gh thelanguage m ust be on e you know.Should the spell be dispelled, the origin al script andthe illusion both disappear.A crea tu re with truesight can read thehidden message.
Imprisonment;9;abjuration;-;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a vellum depiction or a carvedstatuette in the likeness of the target, and a specialcom ponent that varies according to the version o f thespell you choose, worth at least 500 gp per Hit Dieof the target;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You create a magical restraint to hold a creature that You create a magical restraint to hold a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be bound by the spell if it succeeds, it is immune to this spell if you cast it again. W hile affected by this spell, the creature doesnt need to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesnt age. Divination spells cant locate or perceive the target.W hen you cast the spell, you choose one of the following form s of imprisonment.Burial. The target is entombed far beneath the earth in a sphere of magical force that is just large enough to contain the target. Nothing can pass through the sphere, nor can any creature teleport or use planar travel to get into or out of it.The special com ponent for this version of the spell is a small mithral orb.Chaining. Heavy chains, firmly rooted in the ground, hold the target in place. The target is restrained until the spell ends, and it cant move or be moved by any means until then.The special com ponent for this version of the spell is a fine chain of precious metal.Hedged Prison. The spell transports the target into a tiny demiplane that is warded against teleportation and planar travel. The demiplane can be a labyrinth, a cage, a tower, or any similar confined structure or area of your choice.The special com ponent for this version of the spell is a miniature representation of the prison made from jade.Minimus Containment. The target shrinks to a height of 1  inch and is im prisoned inside a gemstone or similarobject. Light can pass through the gemstone normally (allowing the target to see out and other creatures to see in), but nothing else can pass through, even by means of teleportation or planar travel. The gemstone cant be cut or broken while the spell remains in effect.The special com ponent for this version of the spell is a large, transparent gemstone, such as a corundum, diamond, or ruby.Slumber. The target falls asleep and cant be awoken. The special com ponent for this version of the spell consists o f rare soporific herbs.Ending the Spell. During the casting of the spell, in any of its versions, you can specify a condition that will cause the spell to end and release the target. The condition can be as specific or as elaborate as you choose, but the DM must agree that the condition is reasonable and has a likelihood of com ing to pass. The conditions can be based on a creatures name, identity, or deity but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities and not based on intangibles such as level, class, or hit points.A  dispel magic spell can end the spell only if it is cast as a 9th level spell, targeting either the prison or the special com ponent used to create it.You can use a particular special com ponent to create only one prison at a time. If you cast the spell again using the same component, the target of the first casting is immediately freed from its binding.
Incendiary Cloud;8;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A swirling cloud of sm oke shot through with white-hot A swirling cloud of sm oke shot through with white-hot em bers appears in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners and is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it.W hen the cloud appears, each creature in it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 10d8 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A  creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.The cloud m oves  10 feet directly away from you in a direction that you choose at the start of each of your turns.
Inflict Wounds;1;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d10 necrotic damage.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by1d10 for each slot level above  1st.
Insect Plague;5;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a few grains of sugar, som ekernels of grain, and a sm ear of fat;concentration; up to  10 minutes;Swarm ing, biting locusts fill a 20-foot-radius sphere Swarm ing, biting locusts fill a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. The sphere spreads around corners. The sphere remains for the duration, and its area is lightly obscured. The spheres area is difficult terrain.W hen the area appears, each creature in it must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 4 d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.
Invisibility;2;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(an eyelash encasedin gum arabic;1 hour;-;A creature you touch becom es invisible until the spell A creature you touch becom es invisible until the spell ends. Anything the target is w earing or carrying is invisible as long as it is on the targets person. The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.
Jump;1;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a grasshoppers hind leg;1 minutes;-;You touch a creature. The creatures jum p distance is You touch a creature. The creatures jum p distance is tripled until the spell ends.
Knock;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;C hoose an object that you can see within range. The C hoose an object that you can see within range. The object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a padlock, or another object that contains a mundane or magical means that prevents access.A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or that is stuck or barred becom es unlocked, unstuck, orunbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only one of them is unlocked.If you choose a target that is held shut with arcane lock, that spell is suppressed for  10 minutes, during which time the target can be opened and shut normally.W hen you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible from  as far away as 300 feet, emanates from the target object.
Legend Lore;5;divination;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;(incense worth at least 250 gp,which the spell consum es, and four ivory strips worthat least 50 gp each;instant;-;Name or describe a person, place, or object. The spell Name or describe a person, place, or object. The spell brings to your mind a brief summ ary of the significant lore about the thing you named. The lore might consist of current tales, forgotten stories, or even secret lore that has never been widely known. If the thing you named isnt of legendary importance, you gain no information. The m ore information you already have about the thing, the m ore precise and detailed the information you receive is.The information you learn is accurate but might be couched in figurative language. For example, if you have a mysterious magic axe on hand, the spell might yield this information: “W oe to the evildoer w hose hand touches the axe, for even the haft slices the hand of the evil ones. Only a true Child of Stone, lover and beloved of Moradin, may awaken the true powers of the axe, and only with the sacred word Rudnogg on the lips.”
Leomunds Secret Chest;4;conjuration;-; 1  action;-;touch;V,S,M;(an exquisite chest, 3 feet by 2 feetby 2 feet, constructed from rare materials worth atleast 5,000 gp, and a Tiny replica made from the samematerials worth at least 50 gp;instant;-;You hide a chest, and all its contents, on the Ethereal You hide a chest, and all its contents, on the Ethereal Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature replica that serves as a material com ponent for the spell. The chest can contain up to  12 cubic feet of nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).W hile the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, you can use an action and touch the replica to recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by using an action and touching both the chest and the replica.After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent chance per day that the spells effect ends. This effect ends if you cast this spell again, if the smaller replica chest is destroyed, or if you choose to end the spell as an action. If the spell ends and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane, it is irretrievably lost.
Leomunds Tiny Hut;3;evocation;True;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;(a sm all crystal bead;8 hours;-;A 10-foot-radius im mobile dom e o f force springs into A 10-foot-radius im mobile dom e o f force springs into existence around and above you and remains stationary for the duration. The spell ends if you leave its area.Nine creatures of Medium size or smaller can fit inside the dom e with you. The spell fails if its area includes a larger creature or m ore than nine creatures. Creatures and objects within the dom e when you cast this spell can move through it freely. All other creatures and objects are barred from passing through it. Spells and other magical effects cant extend through the dom e or be cast through it. The atmosphere inside the space is comfortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside.Until the spell ends, you can com m and the interior to becom e dimly lit or dark. The dom e is opaque from the outside, of any color you choose, but it is transparent from the inside.
Lesser Restoration;2;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;You touch a creature and can end either one disease or You touch a creature and can end either one disease or one condition afflicting it. The condition can be blinded, deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned.
Levitate;2;transmutation;-;1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(either a small leather loop or apiece of golden wire bent into a cup shape with a longshank on one end;concentration; up to  10 minutes;One creature or object o f your choice that you can see One creature or object o f your choice that you can see within range rises vertically, up to 20 feet, and remains suspended there for the duration. The spell can levitate a target that w eighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a Constitution saving throw is unaffected.The target can move only by pushing or pulling against a fixed object or surface within reach (such as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it were climbing. You can change the targets altitude by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If you are the target, you can move up or down as part of your move. Otherwise, you can use your action to move the target, which must remain within the spells range.W hen the spell ends, the target floats gently to the ground if it is still aloft.
Light;0;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,M;(a firefly or phosphorescent moss;1 hour;-;You touch one object that is no larger than  10 feet in any You touch one object that is no larger than  10 feet in any dimension. Until the spell ends, the object sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light can be colored as you like. Completely covering the object with som ething opaque blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again or dismiss it as an action.If you target an object held or worn by a hostile creature, that creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw to avoid the spell.
Lightning Arrow;3;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you make a ranged w eapon attack during The next time you make a ranged w eapon attack during the spells duration, the w eapons ammunition, or the w eapon itself if its a thrown weapon, transforms into a bolt of lightning. Make the attack roll as normal. The target takes 4d8 lightning damage on a hit, or half as much damage on a miss, instead of the w eapons normal damage.W hether you hit or m iss, each creature within 10 feet of the target must make a Dexterity saving throw. Each of these creatures takes 2d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The piece of ammunition or w eapon then returns to its normal form.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage for both effects of the spell increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.
Lightning Bolt;3;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a bit of fur and a rod of amber,crystal, or glass;instant;-;A stroke of lightning form ing a line  100 feet long and 5 A stroke of lightning form ing a line  100 feet long and 5 feet wide blasts out from you in a direction you choose. Each creature in the line must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The lightning ignites flammable objects in the area that arent being worn or carried.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
Locate Animals or Plants;2;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a bit of fur from a bloodhound;instant;-;D escribe or name a specific kind of beast or plant. D escribe or name a specific kind of beast or plant. Concentrating on the voice of nature in your surroundings, you learn the direction and distance to the closest creature or plant of that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.
Locate Creature;4;divination;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a bit of fur from a bloodhound;1 hour;-;D escribe or name a creature that is familiar to you. You D escribe or name a creature that is familiar to you. You sense the direction to the creatures location, as long as that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the creature is moving, you know the direction of its movement.The spell can locate a specific creature known to you, or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such as a human or a unicorn), so long as you have seen such a creature up closewithin 30 feetat least once. If the creature you described or named is in a different form, such as being under the effects of a polymorph spell, this spell doesnt locate the creature.This spell cant locate a creature if running water at least  10 feet wide blocks a direct path between you and the creature.
Locate Object;2;divination;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a forked twig;concentration; up to  10 minutes;D escribe or name an object that is familiar to you. You D escribe or name an object that is familiar to you. You sense the direction to the objects location, as long as that object is within  1,000 feet of you. If the object is in motion, you know the direction of its movement.The spell can locate a specific object known to you, as long as you have seen it up closewithin 30 feetat least once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.This spell cant locate an object if any thickness of lead, even a thin sheet, blocks a direct path between you and the object.
Longstrider;1;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pinch of dirt;1 hour;-;You touch a creature. The targets speed increases by 10 You touch a creature. The targets speed increases by 10 feet until the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above  1st.
Mage Armor;1;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a piece of cured leather;8 hours;-;You touch a willing creature who isnt wearing armor, You touch a willing creature who isnt wearing armor, and a protective m agical force surrounds it until the spell ends. The targets base AC becom es 13 + its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends if the target dons armor or if you dism iss the spell as an action.
Mage Hand;0;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose within range. The hand lasts for the duration or until you dism iss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is ever m ore than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.You can use your action to control the hand. You can use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open container, or pour the contents out of a vial. You can move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.The hand cant attack, activate magic items, or carry m ore than  10 pounds.
Magic Circle;3;abjuration;-;1 minute;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(holy water or powderedsilver and iron worth at least  100 gp, which thespell consum es;1 hour;-;You create a  10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder of You create a  10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder of magical energy centered on a point on the ground that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear wherever the cylinder intersects with the floor or other surface.Choose one or m ore of the following types of creatures: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the following ways:•  The creature cant willingly enter the cylinder by nonm agical means. If the creature tries to use tele­portation or interplanar travel to do so, it must first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.•  The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against targets within the cylinder.•  Targets within the cylinder cant be charmed, fright­ened, or possessed by the creature.W hen you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its m agic to operate in the reverse direction, preventing a creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder and protecting targets outside it.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration increases by1  hour for each slot level above 3rd.
Magic Jar;6;necromancy;-;1 minute;-;self;V,S,M;(a gem, crystal, reliquary, or som eother ornamental container worth at least 500 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul leaves Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul leaves it and enters the container you used for the spells material component. W hile your soul inhabits the container, you are aware of your surroundings as if you were in the containers space. You cant move or use reactions. The only action you can take is to project your soul up to  100 feet out of the container, either returning to your living body (and ending the spell) or attempting to possess a humanoids body.You can attempt to possess any humanoid within 100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded by a protection from evil and good or magic circle spell cant be possessed). The target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failure, your soul m oves into the targets body, and the targets soul becom es trapped in the container. On a success, the target resists your efforts to possess it, and you cant attempt to possess it again for 24 hours.Once you possess a creatures body, you control it. Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the creature, though you retain your alignment and your Intelligence, W isdom , and Charisma scores. You retain the benefit of your own class features. If the target has any class levels, you cant use any of its class features.Meanwhile, the possessed creatures soul can perceive from the container using its own senses, but it cant move or take actions at all.W hile possessing a body, you can use your action to return from the host body to the container if it is within 100 feet of you, returning the host creatures soul to its body. If the host body dies while youre in it, the creature dies, and you must make a Charisma saving throw against your own spellcasting DC. On a success, you return to the container if it is within  100 feet of you. Otherwise, you die.If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, your soul immediately returns to your body. If your body is more than 100 feet away from you or if your body is dead when you attempt to return to it, you die. If another creatures soul is in the container when it is destroyed, the creatures soul returns to its body if the body is alive and within  100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.W hen the spell ends, the container is destroyed.
Magic Missile;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You create three glowing darts of magical force. Each You create three glowing darts of magical force. Each dart hits a creature of your choice that you can see within range. A dart deals  1d4 + 1  force damage to its target. The darts all strike simultaneously, and you can direct them to hit one creature or several.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell creates one m ore dart for each slot level above  1st.
Magic Mouth;2;illusion;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a small bit of honeycom band jade dust worth at least  10 gp, which thespell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You implant a m essage within an object in range, a You implant a m essage within an object in range, a m essage that is uttered when a trigger condition is met. Choose an object that you can see and that isnt being worn or carried by another creature. Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or less, though it can be delivered over as long as  10 minutes. Finally, determine the circum stance that will trigger the spell to deliver your message.W hen that circum stance occurs, a magical mouth appears on the object and recites the m essage in your voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the object you chose has a mouth or som ething that looks like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical mouth appears there so that the w ords appear to com e from  the objects mouth. W hen you cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its m essage whenever the trigger occurs.The triggering circum stance can be as general or as detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object. For example, you could instruct the mouth to speak when any creature m oves within 30 feet of the object or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
Magic Weapon;2;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You touch a nonm agical weapon. Until the spell ends, You touch a nonm agical weapon. Until the spell ends, that weapon becom es a magic weapon with a +1  bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the bonus increases to +2. W hen you use a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the bonus increases to +3.
Major Image;3;illusion;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of fleece;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create the image of an object, a creature, or som e You create the image of an object, a creature, or som e other visible phenom enon that is no larger than a 20-foot cube. The image appears at a spot that you can see within range and lasts for the duration. It seem s completely real, including sounds, smells, and temperature appropriate to the thing depicted. You cant create sufficient heat or cold to cause damage, a sound loud enough to deal thunder damage or deafen a creature, or a smell that might sicken a creature (like a troglodytes stench).As long as you are within range of the illusion, you can use your action to cause the image to move to any other spot within range. As the image changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an im age of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to make different sounds at different times, even making it carry on a conversation, for example.Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and its other sensory qualities becom e faint to the creature.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the spell lasts until dispelled, without requiring your concentration.
Mass Cure Wounds;5;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A  wave of healing energy washes out from  a point of A  wave of healing energy washes out from  a point of your choice within range. C hoose up to six creatures in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on that point. Each target regains hit points equal to 3d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the healing increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.
Mass Heal;9;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A flood of healing energy flows from you into injured creatures around you. You restore up to 700 hit points, divided as you choose am ong any number of creatures that you can see within range. Creatures healed by this spell are also cured of all diseases and any effect making them blinded or deafened. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
Mass Healing Word;3;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;As you call out w ords of restoration, up to six creatures As you call out w ords of restoration, up to six creatures of your choice that you can see within range regain hit points equal to  1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 3rd.
Mass Suggestion;6;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,M;(a snakes tongue and either a bit ofhoneycom b or a drop of sweet oil;24 hours;-;You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influence up to twelve creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear and understand you. Creatures that cant be charm ed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be w orded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do som e other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect of the spell.Each target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, it pursues the course of action you described to the best of its ability. The suggested course o f action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be com pleted in a shorter time, the spell ends w hen the subject finishes what it was asked to do.You can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that a group of soldiers give all their money to the first beggar they meet. If the condition isnt met before the spell ends, the activity isnt perform ed.If you or any of your com panions damage a creature affected by this spell, the spell ends for that creature.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a 7th level spell slot, the duration is  10 days. W hen you use an 8th level spell slot, the duration is 30 days. W hen you use a 9th level spell slot, the duration is a year and a day.
Maze;8;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You banish a creature that you can see within range into You banish a creature that you can see within range into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.The target can use its action to attempt to escape. W hen it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and the spell ends (a minotaur or goristro dem on automatically succeeds).When the spell ends, the target reappears in the space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the nearest unoccupied space.
Meld  into  Stone;3;transmutation;True; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;8 hours;-;You step into a stone object or surface large enough to You step into a stone object or surface large enough to fully contain your body, melding yourself and all the equipment you carry with the stone for the duration. Using your movement, you step into the stone at a point you can touch. Nothing of your presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by nonm agical senses.W hile merged with the stone, you cant see what occurs outside it, and any W isdom  (Perception) checks you make to hear sounds outside it are made with disadvantage. You remain aware of the passage of time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in the stone. You can use your movement to leave the stone where you entered it, which ends the spell. You otherwise cant move.Minor physical damage to the stone doesnt harm you, but its partial destruction or a change in its shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it) expels you and deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage to you. The stones complete destruction (or transmutation into a different substance) expels you and deals 50 bludgeoning damage to you. If expelled, you fall prone in an unoccupied space closest to where you first entered.
MelfsAcid Arrow;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(powdered rhubarb leaf and anadders stomach;instant;-;A shim m ering green arrow streaks toward a target A shim m ering green arrow streaks toward a target within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 4d4 acid damage immediately and 2d4 acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow splashes the target with acid for half as much o f the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage (both initial and later) increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.
Mending;0;transmutation;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(two lodestones;instant;-;This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves of a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. As long as the break or tear is no larger than  1  foot in any dimension, you mend it. leaving no trace of the former damage.This spell can physically repair a magic item or construct, but the spell cant restore magic to such an object.
Message;0;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a short piece of copper wire;1 round;-;You point your finger toward a creature within range You point your finger toward a creature within range and w hisper a message. The target (and only the target) hears the m essage and can reply in a whisper that only you can hear.You can cast this spell through solid objects if you are familiar with the target and know it is beyond the barrier. Magical silence.  1  foot of stone,  1  inch of com m on metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of w ood blocks the spell. The spell doesnt have to follow a straight line and can travel freely around corners or through openings.
Meteor  Swarm;9;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;1 mile;V,S;-;instant;-;Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four different points you can see within range. Each creature in a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on each point you choose must make a Dexterity saving throw. The sphere spreads around corners. A creature takes 20d6 fire damage and 20d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of m ore than one fiery burst is affected only once.The spell dam ages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that arent being worn or carried.
Mind Blank;8;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;24 hours;-;Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is immune to psychic damage, any effect that would senseits em otions or read its thoughts, divination spells, and the charm ed condition. The spell even foils wish spells and spells or effects of similar power used to affect the targets mind or to gain information about the target.
Minor Illusion;0;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;S,M;(a bit of fleece;1 minutes;-;You create a sound or an image of an object within You create a sound or an image of an object within range that lasts for the duration. The illusion also ends if you dismiss it as an action or cast this spell again.If you create a sound, its volume can range from a whisper to a scream . It can be your voice, som eone elses voice, a lions roar, a beating of drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound continues unabated throughout the duration, or you can make discrete sounds at different times before the spell ends.If you create an image of an objectsuch as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chestit must be no larger than a 5-foot cube. The image cant create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it.If a creature uses its action to examine the sound or image, the creature can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the illusion becom es faint to the creature.
Mirage Arcane;7;illusion;-;10 minutes;-;sight;V,S;-;10 days;-;You make terrain in an area up to  1  mile square You make terrain in an area up to  1  mile square look, sound, smell, and even feel like som e other sort of terrain. The terrains general shape remains the same, however. Open fields or a road could be made to resem ble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or som e other difficult or im passable terrain. A pond can be made to seem  like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and sm ooth road.Similarly, you can alter the appearance of structures, or add them where none are present. The spell doesnt disguise, conceal, or add creatures.The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into difficult terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede movement through the area. Any piece of the illusory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed from  the spells area disappears immediately.Creatures with truesight can see through the illusion to the terrains true form however, all other elements of the illusion remain, so while the creature is aware ofthe illusions presence, the creature can still physically interact with the illusion.
Mirror Image;2;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with you and m im ic your actions, shifting position so its im possible to track which image is real. You can use your action to dismiss the illusory duplicates.Each time a creature targets you with an attack during the spells duration, roll a d20 to determine whether the attack instead targets one of your duplicates.If you have three duplicates, you must roll a 6 or higher to change the attacks target to a duplicate. With two duplicates, you must roll an 8 or higher. With one duplicate, you must roll an  11  or higher.A duplicates AC equals  10 + your Dexterity modifier.If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. A duplicate can be destroyed only by an attack that hits it.It ignores all other damage and effects. The spell ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.A creature is unaffected by this spell if it cant see, if it relies on senses other than sight, such as blindsight, or if it can perceive illusions as false, as with truesight.
Mislead;5;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;self;S;-;1 hour;-;You becom e invisible at the same time that an illusory You becom e invisible at the same time that an illusory double of you appears where you are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but the invisibility ends if you attack or cast a spell.You can use your action to move your illusory double up to twice your speed and make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way you choose.You can see through its eyes and hear through its ears as if you w ere located where it is. On each of your turns as a bonus action, you can switch from  using its senses to using your own, or back again. W hile you are using its senses, you are blinded and deafened in regard to your own surroundings.
Misty Step;2;conjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;instant;-;Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up to 30 Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space that you can see.
Modify Memory;5;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You attempt to reshape another creatures m em ories. You attempt to reshape another creatures m em ories. One creature that you can see must make a W isdom  saving throw. If you are fighting the creature, it has advantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, the target becom es charm ed by you for the duration. The charm ed target is incapacitated and unaware of its surroundings, though it can still hear you. If it takes any damage or is targeted by another spell, this spell ends, and none of the targets m em ories are modified.W hile this charm lasts, you can affect the targets m em ory of an event that it experienced within the last 24 hours and that lasted no m ore than  10 minutes. You can permanently eliminate all m em ory of the event, allow the target to recall the event with perfect clarity and exacting detail, change its m em ory of the details of the event, or create a m em ory of som e other event.You must speak to the target to describe how its m em ories are affected, and it must be able to understand your language for the modified m em ories to take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of your description. If the spell ends before you have finished describing the modified m em ories, the creatures m em ory isnt altered. Otherwise, the modified m em ories take hold when the spell ends.A m odified m em ory doesnt necessarily affect how a creature behaves, particularly if the m em ory contradicts the creatures natural inclinations, alignment, or beliefs. An illogical modified memory, such as implanting a m em ory of how  much the creature enjoyed dousing itself in acid, is dism issed, perhaps as a bad dream. The DM might deem  a modified m em ory too nonsensical to affect a creature in a significant manner.A remove curse or greater restoration spell cast on the target restores the creatures true memory.A t Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can alter the targets m em ories of an event that took place up to 7 days ago (6th level), 30 days ago (7th level),  1 year ago (8th level), or any time in the creatures past (9th level).
Moonbeam;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(several seeds of any m oonseedplant and a piece of opalescent feldspar;1 minutes;-;A silvery beam  of pale light shines down in a 5-foot- A silvery beam  of pale light shines down in a 5-foot- radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range. Until the spell ends, dim light fills the cylinder.W hen a creature enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it is engulfed in ghostly flames that cause searing pain, and it must make a Constitution saving throw. It takes 2d10 radiantdamage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A shapechanger makes its saving throw with disadvantage. If it fails, it also instantly reverts to its original form and cant assume a different form until it leaves the spells light.On each of your turns after you cast this spell, you can use an action to move the beam  60 feet in any direction.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1dlO for each slot level above 2nd.
Mordenkainens Faithful Hound;4;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny silver whistle, a piece ofbone, and a thread;8 hours;-;You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied space that you can see within range, where it remains for the duration, until you dism iss it as an action, or until you move m ore than 100 feet away from it.The hound is invisible to all creatures except you and cant be harmed. W hen a Sm all or larger creature com es within 30 feet of it without first speaking the password that you specify when you cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The hound sees invisible creatures and can see into the Ethereal Plane. It ignores illusions.At the start of each of your turns, the hound attempts to bite one creature within 5 feet of it that is hostile to you. The hounds attack bonus is equal to your spellcasting ability modifier + your proficiency bonus.On a hit, it deals 4d8 piercing damage.
Mordenkainens Magnificent Mansion;7;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a miniature portal carved fromivory, a small piece of polished marble, and a tinysilver spoon, each item worth at least 5 gp;24 hours;-;You conjure an extradimensional dwelling in range You conjure an extradimensional dwelling in range that lasts for the duration. You choose where its one entrance is located. The entrance shim mers faintly and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. You and any creature you designate when you cast the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling as long as the portal remains open. You can open or close the portal if you are within 30 feet of it. W hile closed, the portal is invisible.Beyond the portal is a magnificent foyer with num erous cham bers beyond. The atmosphere is clean, fresh, and warm.You can create any floor plan you like, but the space cant exceed 50 cubes, each cube being 10 feet on each side. The place is furnished and decorated as you choose. It contains sufficient food to serve a nine- course banquet for up to  100 people. A staff of 100 near-transparent servants attends all who enter. Youdecide the visual appearance of these servants and their attire. They are completely obedient to your orders.Each servant can perform any task a normal human servant could perform, but they cant attack or take any action that would directly harm another creature. Thus the servants can fetch things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve food, pour wine, and so on.The servants can go anywhere in the mansion but cant leave it. Furnishings and other objects created by this spell dissipate into sm oke if removed from the mansion. W hen the spell ends, any creatures inside the extradimensional space are expelled into the open spaces nearest to the entrance.
Mordenkainens Private  Sanctum;4;abjuration;-;10 minutes;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a thin sheet of lead, a pieceof opaque glass, a wad of cotton or cloth, andpowdered chrysolite;24 hours;-;You make an area within range magically secure. The You make an area within range magically secure. The area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large as  100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for the duration or until you use an action to dism iss it.W hen you cast the spell, you decide what sort of security the spell provides, choosing any or all of the following properties:•  Sound cant pass through the barrier at the edge of the warded area.•  The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy, preventing vision (including darkvision) through it.•  Sensors created by divination spells cant appear inside the protected area or pass through the barrier at its perimeter.•  Creatures in the area cant be targeted by divination spells.•  Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded area.•  Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.Casting this spell on the same spot every day for a year makes this effect permanent.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can increase the size of the cube by 100 feet for each slot level beyond 4th. Thus you could protect a cube that can be up to 200 feet on one side by using a spell slot of 5th level.
Mordenkainens Sword;7;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a miniature platinum sword witha grip and pom m el of copper and zinc, worth 250 gp;1 minutes;-;You create a sword-shaped plane of force that hovers You create a sword-shaped plane of force that hovers within range. It lasts for the duration.W hen the sword appears, you make a melee spell attack against a target of your choice within 5 feet o f the sword. On a hit. the target takes 3d10 force damage.Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to move the sword up to 20 feet to a spot you can see and repeat this attack against the same target or a different one.
Move Earth;6;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;120 feet;V,S,M;(an iron blade and a small bagcontaining a mixture of soilsclay, loam, and sand;concentration; up to 2 hours;C hoose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on a C hoose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or clay in the area in any manner you choose for the duration. You can raise or lower the areas elevation, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall, or form a pillar. The extent of any such changes cant exceed half the areas largest dimension. So, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the squares elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for these changes to complete.At the end o f every 10 minutes you spend concentrating on the spell, you can choose a new area of terrain to affect.Because the terrains transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area cant usually be trapped or injured by the grounds movement.This spell cant manipulate natural stone or stone construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom m odate the new terrain. If the way you shape the terrain would make a structure unstable, it might collapse.Similarly, this spell doesnt directly affect plant growth. The moved earth carries any plants along with it.
Nondetection;3;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pinch of diamond dustworth 25 gp sprinkled over the target, which thespell consum es;8 hours;-;For the duration, you hide a target that you touch For the duration, you hide a target that you touch from  divination magic. The target can be a willing creature or a place or an object no larger than  10 feet in any dimension. The target cant be targeted by any divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.
Nystuls Magic Aura;2;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a small square of silk;24 hours;-;You place an illusion on a creature or an object you touch so that divination spells reveal false information about it. The target can be a willing creature or an object that isnt being carried or worn by another creature.W hen you cast the spell, choose one or both of the following effects. The effect lasts for the duration. If you cast this spell on the sam e creature or object every day for 30 days, placing the same effect on it each time, the illusion lasts until it is dispelled.False Aura. You change the way the target appears to spells and magical effects, such as detect magic, that detect magical auras. You can make a nonm agical object appear magical, a magical object appear nonmagical, or change the objects magical aura so that it appears to belong to a specific school of magic that you choose. W hen you use this effect on an object, you can make the false magic apparent to any creature that handles the item.Mask. You change the way the target appears to spells and magical effects that detect creature types, such as a paladins Divine Sense or the trigger of a symbol spell. You choose a creature type and other spells and magical effects treat the target as if it were a creature of that type or of that alignment.
Otilukes Freezing Sphere;6;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;300 feet;V,S,M;(a small crystal sphere;instant;-;A frigid globe of cold energy streaks from your fingertips A frigid globe of cold energy streaks from your fingertips to a point of your choice within range, where it explodes in a 60-foot-radius sphere. Each creature within the area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes  10d6 cold damage. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage.If the globe strikes a body of water or a liquid that is principally water (not including water-based creatures), it freezes the liquid to a depth of 6 inches over an area 30 feet square. This ice lasts for 1  minute. Creatures that w ere swim m ing on the surface of frozen water are trapped in the ice. A trapped creature can use an action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC to break free.You can refrain from firing the globe after completing the spell, if you wish. A small globe about the size of a sling stone, cool to the touch, appears in your hand.At any time, you or a creature you give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of 40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the slings normal range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect as the normal casting of the spell. You can also set the globe down without shattering it. After 1  minute, if the globe hasnt already shattered, it explodes.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 6th.
Otilukes Resilient Sphere;4;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a hemispherical piece ofclear crystal and a matching hemispherical pieceof gum arabic;1 minutes;-;A sphere of shim m ering force encloses a creature A sphere of shim m ering force encloses a creature or object of Large size or smaller within range. An unwilling creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is enclosed for the duration.Nothingnot physical objects, energy, or other spell effectscan pass through the barrier, in or out, though a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature or object inside cant be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage anything outside it.The sphere is weightless and just large enough to contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed creature can use its action to push against the spheres walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creatures speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved by other creatures.A disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it without harming anything inside it.
Ottos Irresistible  Dance;6;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;Choose one creature that you can see within range. The Choose one creature that you can see within range. The target begins a com ic dance in place: shuffling, tapping its feet, and capering for the duration. Creatures that cant be charm ed are immune to this spell.A dancing creature must use all its movement to dance without leaving its space and has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls. W hile the target is affected by this spell, other creatures have advantage on attack rolls against it. As an action, a dancing creature makes a W isdom  saving throw to regain control of itself. On a successful save, the spell ends.
Pass  without Trace;2;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(ashes from a burned leaf ofmistletoe and a sprig of spruce;1 hour;-;A veil of shadows and silence radiates from you, A veil of shadows and silence radiates from you, masking you and your com panions from detection.For the duration, each creature you choose within 30 feet of you (including you) has a +10 bonus to Dexterity(Stealth) checks and cant be tracked except by magical means. A creature that receives this bonus leaves behind no tracks or other traces of its passage.
Passwall;5;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch o f sesam e seeds;1 hour;-;A passage appears at a point of your choice that you A passage appears at a point of your choice that you can see on a w ooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall, a ceiling, or a floor) within range, and lasts for the duration. You choose the openings dimensions: up to 5 feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.W hen the opening disappears, any creatures or objects still in the passage created by the spell are safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the surface on which you cast the spell.
Phantasmal Force;2;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of fleece;1 minutes;-;You craft an illusion that takes root in the mind of a You craft an illusion that takes root in the mind of a creature that you can see within range. The target must make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or other visible phenom enon of your choice that is no larger than a 10-foot cube and that is perceivable only to the target for the duration. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.The phantasm includes sound, temperature, and other stimuli, also evident only to the creature.The target can use its action to examine the phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds, the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion, and the spell ends.W hile a target is affected by the spell, the target treats the phantasm as if it were real. The target rationalizes any illogical outcom es from interacting with the phantasm. For example, a target attempting to walk across a phantasmal bridge that spans a chasm falls once it steps onto the bridge. If the target survives the fall, it still believes that the bridge exists and com es up with som e other explanation for its fallit w as pushed, it slipped, or a strong wind might have knocked it off.An affected target is so convinced of the phantasms reality that it can even take damage from the illusion. A phantasm created to appear as a creature can attack the target. Similarly, a phantasm created to appear as fire, a pool of acid, or lava can burn the target. Each round on your turn, the phantasm can deal  1d6 psychic damage to the target if it is in the phantasms area or within 5 feet of the phantasm, provided that the illusion is of a creature or hazard that could logically deal damage, such as by attacking. The target perceives the damage as a type appropriate to the illusion.
Phantasmal Killer;4;illusion;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see within range and create an illusory manifestation of its deepest fears, visible only to that creature. The target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, the target becom es frightened for the duration. At the start of each o f the targets turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or take 4 d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1dlO for each slot level above 4th.
Phantom  Steed;3;illusion;True;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on the ground in an unoccupied space o f your choice within range. You decide the creatures appearance, but it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a puff of sm oke if it is carried m ore than  10 feet away from the steed.For the duration, you or a creature you choose can ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can travel  10 miles in an hour, or 13 m iles at a fast pace. W hen the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the rider 1  minute to dismount. The spell ends if you use an action to dism iss it or if the steed takes any damage.
Planar Ally;6;conjuration;-;10 minutes;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The being You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The being must be known to you: a god, a primordial, a demon prince, or som e other being of cosm ic power. That entity sends a celestial, an elemental, or a fiend loyal to it to aid you, making the creature appear in an unoccupied space within range. If you know a specific creatures name, you can speak that name when you cast this spell to request that creature, though you might get a different creature anyway (DM s choice).W hen the creature appears, it is under no com pulsion to behave in any particular way. You can ask the creature to perform  a service in exchange for payment, but it isnt obliged to do so. The requested task could range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or help us fight a battle) to com plex (spy on our enemies, or protectus during our foray into the dungeon). You must be able to com m unicate with the creature to bargain for its services.Payment can take a variety of forms. A celestial might require a sizable donation of gold or m agic items to an allied temple, while a fiend might demand a living sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Som e creatures might exchange their service for a quest undertaken by you.As a rule of thumb, a task that can be m easured in minutes requires a payment worth  100 gp per minute. A task m easured in hours requires 1,000 gp per hour. And a task m easured in days (up to  10 days) requires 10,000 gp per day. The DM can adjust these payments based on the circum stances under which you cast the spell. If the task is aligned with the creatures ethos, the payment might be halved or even waived. Nonhazardous tasks typically require only half the suggested payment, while especially dangerous tasks might require a greater gift. Creatures rarely accept tasks that seem  suicidal.After the creature com pletes the task, or when the agreed-upon duration of service expires, the creature returns to its home plane after reporting back to you, if appropriate to the task and if possible. If you are unable to agree on a price for the creatures service, the creature immediately returns to its hom e plane.A creature enlisted to join your group counts as a m em ber of it, receiving a full share of experience points awarded.
Planar Binding;5;abjuration;-;1 hour;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a jew el worth at least  1,000 gp,which the spell consum es;24 hours;-;With this spell, you attempt to bind a celestial, an With this spell, you attempt to bind a celestial, an elemental, a fey, or a fiend to your service. The creature must be within range for the entire casting of the spell. (Typically, the creature is first sum m oned into the center of an inverted magic circle in order to keep it trapped while this spell is cast.) At the com pletion of the casting, the target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, it is bound to serve you for the duration. If the creature w as sum m oned or created by another spell, that spells duration is extended to match the duration of this spell.A bound creature must follow your instructions to the best of its ability. You might com m and the creature to accom pany you on an adventure, to guard a location, or to deliver a m essage. The creature obeys the letter of your instructions, but if the creature is hostile to you, it strives to twist your w ords to achieve its own objectives. If the creature carries out your instructions completely before the spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a different plane of existence, it returns to the place where you bound it and remains there until the spell ends.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of a higher level, the duration increases to  10 days with a 6th level slot, to 30 days with a 7th level slot, to  180 days with an 8th level slot, and to a year and a day with a 9th level spell slot.
Plane Shift;7;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a forked, metal rod worth at least250 gp, attuned to a particular plane of existence;instant;-;You and up to eight willing creatures who link hands in You and up to eight willing creatures who link hands in a circle are transported to a different plane of existence. You can specify a target destination in general terms, such as the City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire or the palace of Dispater on the second level of the Nine Hells, and you appear in or near that destination.If you are trying to reach the City o f Brass, for example, you might arrive in its Street of Steel, before its Gate of Ashes, or looking at the city from  across the Sea of Fire, at the DM s discretion.Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a teleportation circle on another plane of existence, this spell can take you to that circle. If the teleportation circle is too small to hold all the creatures you transported, they appear in the closest unoccupied spaces next to the circle.You can use this spell to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. C hoose a creature within your reach and make a melee spell attack against it. On a hit, the creature must make a Charisma saving throw. If the creature fails this save, it is transported to a random location on the plane of existence you specify. A creature so transported must find its own way back to your current plane of existence.
Plant Growth;3;transmutation;-;1  action ; 8 hours ; 150 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;This spell channels vitality into plants within a specific This spell channels vitality into plants within a specific area. There are two possible uses for the spell, granting either immediate or long-term benefits.If you cast this spell using  1  action, choose a point within range. All norm al plants in a  100-foot radius centered on that point becom e thick and overgrown. A creature moving through the area must spend 4 feet of movement for every 1  foot it moves.You can exclude one or m ore areas of any size within the spells area from being affected.If you cast this spell over 8 hours, you enrich the land. All plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point within range becom e enriched for 1 year. The plants yield twice the normal amount of food when harvested.
Poison Spray;0;conjuration;-; 1  action;-; 10 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You extend your hand toward a creature you can see within range and project a puff of noxious gas from your palm. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take  1d12 poison damage.This spells damage increases by 1d12 when you reach 5th level (2d12),  11th level (3d12), and 17th level (4d12).
Polymorph;4;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a caterpillar cocoon;1 hour;-;This spell transforms a creature that you can see This spell transforms a creature that you can see within range into a new form. An unwilling creature must make a W isdom  saving throw to avoid the effect. A shapechanger automatically succeeds on this saving throw.The transformation lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. The new form can be any beast w hose challenge rating is equal to or less than the targets (or the targets level, if it doesnt have a challenge rating). The targets game statistics, including mental ability scores, are replaced by the statistics of the chosen beast. It retains its alignment and personality.The target assum es the hit points of its new form. W hen it reverts to its normal form, the creature returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesnt reduce the creatures normal form to 0 hit points, it isnt knocked unconscious.The creature is limited in the actions it can perform  by the nature of its new form, and it cant speak, cast spells, or take any other action that requires hands or speech.The targets gear melds into the new form. The creature cant activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.
Power Word  Stun;8;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You speak a w ord of power that can overwhelm the You speak a w ord of power that can overwhelm the mind o f one creature you can see within range, leaving it dumbfounded. If the target has  150 hit points or fewer, it is stunned. Otherwise, the spell has no effect.The stunned target must make a Constitution saving throw at the end o f each of its turns. On a successful save, this stunning effect ends.
Power Word Heal;9;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;A wave of healing energy washes over the creature A wave of healing energy washes over the creature you touch. The target regains all its hit points. If the creature is charmed, frightened, paralyzed, or stunned, the condition ends. If the creature is prone, it can use its reaction to stand up. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
Power Word Kill;9;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You utter a w ord o f power that can com pel one creature you can see within range to die instantly. If the creature you choose has 100 hit points or fewer, it dies. Otherwise, the spell has no effect.
Prayer of Healing;2;evocation;-;10 minutes;-;30 feet;V;-;instant;-;Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see within range each regain hit points equal to 2d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Prestidigitation;0;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-; 10 feet;V,S;-;1 hour;-;This spell is a m inor m agical trick that novice This spell is a m inor m agical trick that novice spellcasters use for practice. You create one of the following m agical effects within range:•  You create an instantaneous, harm less sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks, a puff of wind, faint musi­cal notes, or an odd odor.•  You instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.•  You instantaneously clean or soil an object no larger •  You chill, warm, or flavor up to  1  cubic foot of nonliv­than 1  cubic foot.ing material for 1  hour.•  You make a color, a small mark, or a symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.•  You create a nonm agical trinket or an illusory image that can fit in your hand and that lasts until the end of your next turn.If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three o f its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.
Prismatic Spray;7;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;Eight multicolored rays of light flash from  your hand. Eight multicolored rays of light flash from  your hand. Each ray is a different color and has a different power and purpose. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. For each target, roll a d8 to determine which color ray affects it.1. Red. The target takes  10d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.2. Orange. The target takes 10d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.3. Yellow. The target takes 10d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.4. Green. The target takes  10d6 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.5. Blue. The target takes 10d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.6. Indigo. On a failed save, the target is restrained.It must then make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the spell ends. If it fails its save three times,it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the petrified condition. The successes and failures dont need to be consecutive keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.7. Violet. On a failed save, the target is blinded. It must then make a W isdom  saving throw at the start of your next turn. A successful save ends the blindness. If it fails that save, the creature is transported to another plane of existence of the DM s choosing and is no longer blinded. (Typically, a creature that is on a plane that isnt its hom e plane is banished home, while other creatures are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.)8. Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll twice more, rerolling any 8.
Prismatic Wall;9;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;A shimmering, m ulticolored plane of light form s a A shimmering, m ulticolored plane of light form s a vertical opaque wallup to 90 feet long, 30 feet high, and  1  inch thickcentered on a point you can see within range. Alternatively, you can shape the wall into a sphere up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point you choose within range. The wall remains in place for the duration. If you position the wall so that it passes through a space occupied by a creature, the spell fails, and your action and the spell slot are wasted.The wall sheds bright light out to a range of 100 feet and dim light for an additional  100 feet. You and creatures you designate at the time you cast the spell can pass through and remain near the wall without harm. If another creature that can see the wall m oves to within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creaturemust succeed on a Constitution saving throw or becom e blinded for 1  minute.The wall consists of seven layers, each with a different color. W hen a creature attempts to reach into or pass through the wall, it does so one layer at a time through all the walls layers. As it passes or reaches through each layer, the creature must make a Dexterity saving throw or be affected by that layers properties as described below.The wall can be destroyed, also one layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means specific to each layer. Once a layer is destroyed, it remains so for the duration of the spell. A rod of cancellation destroys a prismatic wall, but an antimagic field has no effect on it.1. Red. The creature takes  10d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. W hile this layer is in place, nonm agical ranged attacks cant pass through the wall. The layer can be destroyed by dealing at least 25 cold damage to it.2. Orange. The creature takes  10d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. W hile this layer is in place, m agical ranged attacks cant pass through the wall. The layer is destroyed bya strong wind.3.  Yellow. The creature takes  10d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This layer can be destroyed by dealing at least 60 force damage to it.4. Green. The creature takes 10d6 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A passwall spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.5. Blue. The creature takes  10d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This layer can be destroyed by dealing at least 25 fire damage to it.6. Indigo. On a failed save, the creature is restrained. It must then make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the spell ends. If it fails its save three times,it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the petrified condition. The successes and failures dont need to be consecutive keep track of both until the creature collects three of a kind.W hile this layer is in place, spells cant be cast through the wall. The layer is destroyed by bright light shed by a daylight spell or a similar spell of equal or higher level.7.  Violet.  On a failed save, the creature is blinded. It must then make a W isdom  saving throw at the start of your next turn. A successful save ends the blindness. If it fails that save, the creature is transported to another plane of the DM s choosing and is no longer blinded. (Typically, a creature that is on a plane that isnt its hom e plane is banished home, while other creatures are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.) This layer is destroyed by a dispel magic spell or a similar spell of equal or higher level that can end spells and m agical effects.
Produce Flame;0;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;A flickering flame appears in your hand. The flame A flickering flame appears in your hand. The flame remains there for the duration and harms neither you nor your equipment. The flame sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional  10 feet. The spell ends if you dism iss it as an action or if you cast it again.You can also attack with the flame, although doing so ends the spell. W hen you cast this spell, or as an action on a later turn, you can hurl the flame at a creature within 30 feet of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes  1d8 fire damage.This spells damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8),  11th level (3d8), and  17th level (4d8).
Programmed Illusion;6;illusion;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of fleece and jade dust worthat least 25 gp;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or som e other visible phenom enon within range that activates when a specific condition occurs. The illusion is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than a 30-foot cube, and you decide when you cast the spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it makes. This scripted perform ance can last up to 5 minutes.W hen the condition you specify occurs, the illusion springs into existence and perform s in the manner you described. Once the illusion finishes perform ing, it disappears and remains dormant for  10 minutes. After this time, the illusion can be activated again.The triggering condition can be as general or as detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the area. For example, you could create an illusion of yourself to appear and warn off others who attempt to open a trapped door, or you could set the illusion to trigger only when a creature says the correct w ord or phrase.Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
Project Image;7;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;500 miles;V,S,M;(a small replica o f you made frommaterials worth at least 5 gp;concentration; up to  1  day;You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for the duration. The copy can appear at any location within range that you have seen before, regardless of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and sounds like you but is intangible. If the illusion takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.You can use your action to move this illusion up to twice your speed, and make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It m im ics your m annerism s perfectly.You can see through its eyes and hear through its ears as if you were in its space. On your turn as a bonus action, you can switch from using its senses to using your own, or back again. W hile you are using its senses, you are blinded and deafened in regard to your own surroundings.Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
Protection from Energy;3;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;For the duration, the willing creature you touch has For the duration, the willing creature you touch has resistance to one damage type of your choice: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder.
Protection from Evil and Good;1;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(holy water or powdered silverand iron, which the spell consum es;concentration; up to  10 minutes;Until the spell ends, one willing creature you Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is protected against certain types of creatures: aberrations, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead.The protection grants several benefits. Creatures of those types have disadvantage on attack rolls against the target. The target also cant be charmed, frightened, or possessed by them. If the target is already charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature, the target has advantage on any new saving throw against the relevant effect.
Protection from Poison;2;abjuration;-;1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;1 hour;-;You touch a creature. If it is poisoned, you neutralize the You touch a creature. If it is poisoned, you neutralize the poison. If m ore than one poison afflicts the target, you neutralize one poison that you know is present, or you neutralize one at random.For the duration, the target has advantage on saving throws against being poisoned, and it has resistance to poison damage.
Purify Food and Drink;1;transmutation;True; 1  action ;-; 10 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;All nonm agical food and drink within a 5-foot-radius All nonm agical food and drink within a 5-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range is purified and rendered free of poison and disease.
Raise Dead;5;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(a diamond worth at least 500 gp,which the spell consum es;instant;-;You return a dead creature you touch to life, provided You return a dead creature you touch to life, provided that it has been dead no longer than 10 days. If the creatures soul is both willing and at liberty to rejoin the body, the creature returns to life with 1  hit point.This spell also neutralizes any poisons and cures nonm agical diseases that affected the creature at the time it died. This spell doesnt, however, remove magical diseases, curses, or similar effects if these arent first removed prior to casting the spell, they take effect when the creature returns to life. The spell cant return an undead creature to life.This spell closes all mortal w ounds, but it doesnt restore m issing body parts. If the creature is lacking body parts or organs integral for its survivalits head, for instancethe spell automatically fails.Com ing back from the dead is an ordeal. The target takes a - 4  penalty to all attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks. Every time the target finishes a long rest, the penalty is reduced by 1 until it disappears.
Rarys Telepathic Bond;5;divination;True;1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(pieces of eggshell from twodifferent kinds of creatures;1 hour;-;You forge a telepathic link am ong up to eight willing You forge a telepathic link am ong up to eight willing creatures of your choice within range, psychicallylinking each creature to all the others for the duration. Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 or less arent affected by this spell.Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate telepathically through the bond whether or not they have a com m on language. The com m unication is possible over any distance, though it cant extend to other planes of existence.
Ray of  Sickness;1;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A ray o f sickening greenish energy lashes out toward A ray o f sickening greenish energy lashes out toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 poison damage and must make a Constitution saving throw.On a failed save, it is also poisoned until the end of your next turn.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot o f 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above  1st.
Ray of Enfeeblement;2;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A  black beam  o f enervating energy springs from your A  black beam  o f enervating energy springs from your finger toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target deals only half damage with weapon attacks that use Strength until the spell ends.At the end of each of the targets turns, it can make a Constitution saving throw against the spell. On a success, the spell ends.
Ray of Frost;0;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;A frigid beam  o f blue-white light streaks toward a A frigid beam  o f blue-white light streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, it takes  1d8 cold damage, and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.The spells damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8),  11th level (3d8), and  17th level (4d8).
Regenerate;7;transmutation;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(a prayer wheel and holy water;1 hour;-;You touch a creature and stimulate its natural healing ability. The target regains 4d8 + 15 hit points. For the duration of the spell, the target regains  1  hit point at the start of each of its turns (10 hit points each minute).The targets severed body m em bers (fingers, legs, tails, and so on), if any, are restored after 2 minutes.If you have the severed part and hold it to the stump, the spell instantaneously causes the limb to knit to the stump.
Reincarnate;5;transmutation;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(rare oils and unguents worth atleast 1,000 gp, which the spell consum es;instant;-;You touch a dead humanoid or a piece o f a dead You touch a dead humanoid or a piece o f a dead humanoid. Provided that the creature has been dead no longer than  10 days, the spell form s a new adult body for it and then calls the soul to enter that body. If the targets soul isnt free or willing to do so, the spell fails.The magic fashions a new body for the creature to inhabit, which likely causes the creatures race to change. The DM rolls a d 100 and consults the following table to determine what form the creature takes when restored to life, or the DM chooses a form.d10001-0405-1314-2122-2526-3435-4243-4647-5253-5657-6061-6869-7677-9697-00RaceDragonbornDwarf, hillDwarf, mountainElf, darkElf, highElf, woodGnome, forestGnome, rockHalf-elfHalf-orcHalfling,  lightfootHalfling, stoutHumanTieflingThe reincarnated creature recalls its former life and experiences. It retains the capabilities it had in its original form, except it exchanges its original race for the new one and changes its racial traits accordingly.
Remove Curse;3;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;At your touch, all curses affecting one creature or At your touch, all curses affecting one creature or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse remains, but the spell breaks its ow ners attunement to the object so it can be removed or discarded.
Resistance;0;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a miniature cloak;1 minutes;-;You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one saving throw of its choice. It can roll the die before or after making the saving throw. The spell then ends.
Resurrection;7;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(a diamond worth at least  1,000gp, which the spell consum es;instant;-;You touch a dead creature that has been dead for no You touch a dead creature that has been dead for no m ore than a century, that didnt die of old age, and that isnt undead. If its soul is free and willing, the target returns to life with all its hit points.This spell neutralizes any poisons and cures normal diseases afflicting the creature when it died. It doesnt, however, remove magical diseases, curses, and the like if such effects arent removed prior to casting the spell, they afflict the target on its return to life.This spell closes all mortal w ounds and restores any m issing body parts.Com ing back from  the dead is an ordeal. The target takes a - 4  penalty to all attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks. Every time the target finishes a long rest, the penalty is reduced by 1  until it disappears.Casting this spell to restore life to a creature that has been dead for one year or longer taxes you greatly. Until you finish a long rest, you cant cast spells again, and you have disadvantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
Reverse Gravity;7;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-; 100 feet;V,S,M;(a lodestone and iron filings;1 minutes;-;This spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius,  100- This spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius,  100- foot high cylinder centered on a point within range. All creatures and objects that arent som ehow anchored to the ground in the area fall upward and reach the top of the area when you cast this spell. A creature can make a Dexterity saving throw to grab onto a fixed object it can reach, thus avoiding the fall.If som e solid object (such as a ceiling) is encountered in this fall, falling objects and creatures strike it just as they would during a normal downward fall. If an object or creature reaches the top o f the area without striking anything, it remains there, oscillating slightly, for the duration.At the end of the duration, affected objects and creatures fall back down.
Revivify;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(diamonds worth 300 gp, whichthe spell consum es;instant;-;You touch a creature that has died within the last You touch a creature that has died within the last minute. That creature returns to life with  1  hit point. This spell cant return to life a creature that has died of old age, nor can it restore any missing body parts.
Rope Trick;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(powdered corn extract and atwisted loop of parchment;1 hour;-;You touch a length o f rope that is up to 60 feet long.You touch a length o f rope that is up to 60 feet long.One end of the rope then rises into the air until the whole rope hangs perpendicular to the ground. At the upper end of the rope, an invisible entrance opens to an extradimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.The extradimensional space can be reached by climbing to the top of the rope. The space can hold as many as eight Medium or smaller creatures. The rope can be pulled into the space, making the rope disappear from view outside the space.Attacks and spells cant cross through the entrance into or out of the extradimensional space, but those inside can see out of it as if through a 3-foot-by-5-foot w indow centered on the rope.Anything inside the extradimensional space drops out when the spell ends.
Sacred  Flame;0;evocation;-;1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take  1d8 radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from  cover for this saving throw.The spells damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8),  11th level (3d8), and  17th level (4d8).
Sanctuary;1;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a small silver mirror;1 minutes;-;You ward a creature within range against attack. Until You ward a creature within range against attack. Until the spell ends, any creature who targets the warded creature with an attack or a harmful spell must first make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, the creature must choose a new target or lose the attackor spell. This spell doesnt protect the warded creature from area effects, such as the explosion of a fireball.If the warded creature makes an attack or casts a spell that affects an enemy creature, this spell ends.
Scorching Ray;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;instant;-;You create three rays o f fire and hurl them at targets You create three rays o f fire and hurl them at targets within range. You can hurl them at one target or several.Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 fire damage.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create one additional ray for each slot level above 2nd.
Scrying;5;divination;-;10 minutes;-;self;V,S,M;(a focus worth at least  1,000 gp,such as a crystal ball, a silver mirror, or a font filledwith holy water;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You can see and hear a particular creature you choose You can see and hear a particular creature you choose that is on the sam e plane of existence as you. The target must make a W isdom  saving throw, which is modified by how well you know the target and the sort of physical connection you have to it. If a target knows youre casting this spell, it can fail the saving throw voluntarily if it wants to be observed.KnowledgeSecondhand  (you  have heard of the target)Firsthand  (you  have met the target)Familiar (you know the target well)Save Modifier+5+0-5ConnectionLikeness or picturePossession or garmentBody part,  lock of hair, bit of nail, or the likeSave Modifier-2-4-10On a successful save, the target isnt affected, and you cant use this spell against it again for 24 hours.On a failed save, the spell creates an invisible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You can see and hear through the sensor as if you w ere there. The sensor m oves with the target, remaining within 10 feet of it for the duration. A creature that can see invisible objects sees the sensor as a luminous orb about the size of your fist.Instead of targeting a creature, you can choose a location you have seen before as the target of this spell. W hen you do, the sensor appears at that location and doesnt move.
Searing Smite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack during the spells duration, your weapon flares with white-hot intensity, and the attack deals an extra 1d6 fire damage to the target and causes the target to ignite in flames. At the start of each of its turns until the spell ends, the target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes  1d6 fire damage. On a successful save, the spell ends. If the target or a creature within 5 feet o f it uses an action to put out the flames, or if som e other effect douses the flames (such as the target being submerged in water), the spell ends.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial extra damage dealt by the attack increases by 1d6 for each slot level above  1st.
See Invisibility;2;divination;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a pinch of talc and a smallsprinkling of powdered silver;1 hour;-;For the duration, you see invisible creatures and objects For the duration, you see invisible creatures and objects as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects appear ghostly and translucent.
Seeming;5;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S;-;8 hours;-;This spell allows you to change the appearance of any This spell allows you to change the appearance of any number of creatures that you can see within range. You give each target you choose a new, illusory appearance. An unwilling target can make a Charisma saving throw, and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.The spell disguises physical appearance as well as clothing, armor, weapons, and equipment. You can make each creature seem   1  foot shorter or taller and appear thin, fat, or in between. You cant change a targets body type, so you must choose a form that has the same basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of the illusion is up to you. The spell lasts for the duration, unless you use your action to dism iss it sooner.The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell to add a hat to a creatures outfit, objects pass through the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing or would feel the creatures head and hair. If you use this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand ofsom eone w ho reaches out to touch you would bump into you while it was seem ingly still in midair.A creature can use its action to inspect a target and make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it becom es aware that the target is disguised.
Sending;3;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;Unlimited;V,S,M;(a short piece of fine copper wire;1 round;-;You send a short m essage of twenty-five words or You send a short m essage of twenty-five words or less to a creature with which you are familiar. The creature hears the m essage in its mind, recognizes you as the sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like manner immediately. The spell enables creatures with Intelligence scores of at least 1  to understand the meaning of your message.You can send the m essage across any distance and even to other planes of existence, but if the target is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent chance that the m essage doesnt arrive.
Sequester;7;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a powder com posed of diamond,emerald, ruby, and sapphire dust worth at least 5,000gp, which the spell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;By means of this spell, a willing creature or an object By means of this spell, a willing creature or an object can be hidden away, safe from detection for the duration. W hen you cast the spell and touch the target, it becom es invisible and cant be targeted by divination spells or perceived through scrying sensors created by divination spells.If the target is a creature, it falls into a state of suspended animation. Time ceases to flow for it, and it doesnt grow older.You can set a condition for the spell to end early.The condition can be anything you choose, but it must occur or be visible within  1  mile of the target. Examples include “after  1,000 years” or “when the tarrasque awakens.” This spell also ends if the target takes any damage.
Shapechange;9;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a jade circlet worth at least 1,500gp, which you must place on your head before youcast the spell;1 hour;-;You assume the form of a different creature for the You assume the form of a different creature for the duration. The new form can be of any creature with a challenge rating equal to your level or lower. Thecreature cant be a construct or an undead, and you must have seen the sort of creature at least once. You transform into an average example o f that creature, one without any class levels or the Spellcasting trait.Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the chosen creature, though you retain your alignment and Intelligence, W isdom , and Charisma scores. You also retain all of your skill and saving throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the creature. If the creature has the sam e proficiency as you and the bonus listed in its statistics is higher than yours, use the creatures bonus in place of yours. You cant use any legendary actions or lair actions of the new form.You assume the hit points and Hit Dice of the new form. When you revert to your normal form, you return to the number o f hit points you had before you transformed. If you revert as a result of dropping to0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to your normal form. As long as the excess damage doesnt reduce your normal form to 0 hit points, you arent knocked unconscious.You retain the benefit o f any features from your class, race, or other source and can use them, provided that your new form is physically capable of doing so. You cant use any special senses you have (for example, darkvision) unless your new form also has that sense. You can only speak if the creature can normally speak.W hen you transform, you choose whether your equipment falls to the ground, merges into the new form, or is worn by it. W orn equipment functions as normal. The DM determines whether it is practical for the new form to w ear a piece of equipment, based on the creatures shape and size. Your equipment doesnt change shape or size to match the new form, and any equipment that the new form cant w ear must either fall to the ground or merge into your new form. Equipment that merges has no effect in that state.During this spells duration, you can use your action to assume a different form following the same restrictions and rules for the original form, with one exception: if your new form has more hit points than your current one, your hit points remain at their current value.
Shatter;2;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a chip of mica;instant;-;A sudden loud ringing noise, painfully intense, erupts A sudden loud ringing noise, painfully intense, erupts from  a point of your choice within range. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 thunder dam age on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature made of inorganic material such as stone, crystal, or metal has disadvantage on this saving throw.A nonm agical object that isnt being worn or carried also takes the damage if its in the spells area.A t Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Shield;1;abjuration;-;1 reaction; which you take when you are hit by an attack or targeted by the magic missile spell ;self;V,S;-;1 round;-;An invisible barrier of m agical force appears and An invisible barrier of m agical force appears and protects you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, and you take no damage from  magic missile.
Shield  of  Faith;1;abjuration;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a small parchment with a bit ofholy text written on it;concentration; up to  10 minutes;A shim mering field appears and surrounds a creature A shim mering field appears and surrounds a creature of your choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC for the duration.
Shillelagh;0;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S,M;(mistletoe, a sham rock leaf, and aclub or quarterstaff;1 minutes;-;The w ood of a club or quarterstaff you are holding is The w ood of a club or quarterstaff you are holding is imbued with natures power. For the duration, you can use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that weapon, and the weapons damage die becom es a d8. The weapon also becom es magical, if it isnt already. The spell ends if you cast it again or if you let go of the weapon.
Shocking Grasp;0;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to a creature you try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the target. You have advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target takes  1d8 lightning damage, and it cant take reactions until the start of its next turn.The spells damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8),  11th level (3d8), and  17th level (4d8).
Silence;2;illusion;True; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;For the duration, no sound can be created within or pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. Any creature or object entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder damage, and creatures are deafened while entirely inside it. Casting a spell that includes a verbal com ponent is im possible there.
Silent Image;1;illusion;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a bit of fleece;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create the image of an object, a creature, or som e You create the image of an object, a creature, or som e other visible phenom enon that is no larger than a 15-foot cube. The image appears at a spot within range and lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual it isnt accom panied by sound, smell, or other sensory effects.You can use your action to cause the image to move to any spot within range. As the im age changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking.Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image.
Simulacrum;7;illusion;-;12 hours;-;touch;V,S,M;(snow or ice in quantitiessufficient to made a life-size copy of the duplicatedcreature som e hair, fingernail clippings, or otherpiece o f that creatures body placed inside the snowor ice and powdered ruby worth  1,500 gp, sprinkledover the duplicate and consum ed by the spell;Until dispelled or triggered;-;You shape an illusory duplicate of one beast or You shape an illusory duplicate of one beast or humanoid that is within range for the entire casting time of the spell. The duplicate is a creature, partially real and form ed from ice or snow, and it can take actions and otherwise be affected as a normal creature.It appears to be the same as the original, but it has half the creatures hit point maximum and is form ed without any equipment. Otherwise, the illusion uses all the statistics of the creature it duplicates.The simulacrum is friendly to you and creatures you designate. It obeys your spoken com m ands, moving and acting in accordance with your wishes and acting on your turn in combat. The simulacrum lacks the ability to learn or becom e m ore powerful, so it never increases its level or other abilities, nor can it regain expended spell slots.If the simulacrum is damaged, you can repair it in an alchemical laboratory, using rare herbs and minerals worth 100 gp per hit point it regains. The simulacrum lasts until it drops to 0 hit points, at which point it reverts to snow  and melts instantly.If you cast this spell again, any currently active duplicates you created with this spell are instantly destroyed.
Sleep;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch of fine sand, rose petals,or a cricket;1 minutes;-;This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber.This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber.Roll 5d8 the total is how many hit points of creatures this spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet of a point you choose within range are affected in ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures).Starting with the creature that has the lowest current hit points, each creature affected by this spell falls unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes damage, or som eone uses an action to shake or slap the sleeper awake. Subtract each creatures hit points from  the total before moving on to the creature with the next lowest hit points. A creatures hit points must be equal to or less than the remaining total for that creature to be affected.Undead and creatures immune to being charm ed arent affected by this spell.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d8 for each slot level above  1st.
Sleet  Storm;3;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch of dust and a fewdrops of water;1 minutes;-;Until the spell ends, freezing rain and sleet fall in a Until the spell ends, freezing rain and sleet fall in a 20-foot-tall cylinder with a 40-foot radius centered on a point you choose within range. The area is heavily obscured, and exposed flames in the area are doused.The ground in the area is covered with slick ice, making it difficult terrain. W hen a creature enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, it falls prone.If a creature is concentrating in the spells area, the creature must make a successful Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC or lose concentration.
Slow;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of molasses;1 minutes;-;You alter time around up to six creatures o f your You alter time around up to six creatures o f your choice in a 40-foot cube within range. Each target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or be affected by this spell for the duration.An affected targets speed is halved, it takes a -2  penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it cant use reactions. On its turn, it can use either an action or a bonus action, not both. Regardless of the creatures abilities or magic items, it cant make m ore than one melee or ranged attack during its turn.If the creature attempts to cast a spell with a casting time of 1  action, roll a d20. On an  11  or higher, the spell doesnt take effect until the creatures next turn, and the creature must use its action on that turn to complete the spell. If it cant, the spell is wasted.A creature affected by this spell makes another W isdom  saving throw at the end of its turn. On a successful save, the effect ends for it.
Spare the Dying;0;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S;-;instant;-;You touch a living creature that has 0 hit points. The You touch a living creature that has 0 hit points. The creature becom es stable. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
Speak with Animals;1;divination;True; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;You gain the ability to com prehend and verbally You gain the ability to com prehend and verbally com m unicate with beasts for the duration. The knowledge and awareness of many beasts is limited by their intelligence, but at minimum, beasts can give you information about nearby locations and monsters, including whatever they can perceive or have perceived within the past day. You might be able to persuade a beast to perform  a small favor for you, at the D M s discretion.
Speak with Dead;3;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-; 10 feet;V,S,M;(burning incense;10 minutes;-;You grant the sem blance of life and intelligence to a You grant the sem blance of life and intelligence to a corpse of your choice within range, allowing it to answer the questions you pose. The corpse must still have amouth and cant be undead. The spell fails if the corpse was the target of this spell within the last  10 days.Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse is under no com pulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. This spell doesnt return the creatures soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the corpse cant learn new information, doesnt comprehend anything that has happened since it died, and cant speculate about future events.
Speak with Plants;3;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;You imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited You imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited sentience and animation, giving them the ability to com m unicate with you and follow your simple com m ands. You can question plants about events in the spells area within the past day, gaining information about creatures that have passed, weather, and other circum stances.You can also turn difficult terrain caused by plant growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present into difficult terrain that lasts for the duration, causing vines and branches to hinder pursuers, for example.Plants might be able to perform  other tasks on your behalf, at the DM s discretion. The spell doesnt enable plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they can freely move branches, tendrils, and stalks.If a plant creature is in the area, you can communicate with it as if you shared a com m on language, but you gain no magical ability to influence it.This spell can cause the plants created by the entangle spell to release a restrained creature.
Spider Climb;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a drop o f bitumen and a spider;1 hour;-;Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch gains the ability to move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving its hands free. The target also gains a climbing speed equal to its walking speed.
Spike Growth;2;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(seven sharp thorns or sevensmall twigs, each sharpened to a point;concentration; up to  10 minutes;The ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. The area becom es difficult terrain for the duration. W hen a creature m oves into or within the area, it takes 2d4 piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels.The transformation of the ground is camouflaged to look natural. Any creature that cant see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a W isdom  (Perception) check against your spell save DC to recognize the terrain as hazardous before entering it.
Spirit Guardians;3;conjuration;-;1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a holy symbol;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You call forth spirits to protect you. They flit around you You call forth spirits to protect you. They flit around you to a distance of 15 feet for the duration. If you are good or neutral, their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.W hen you cast this spell, you can designate any number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it. An affected creatures speed is halved in the area, and when the creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 radiant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.
Spiritual Weapon;2;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;60 feet;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You create a floating, spectral weapon within range that You create a floating, spectral weapon within range that lasts for the duration or until you cast this spell again. W hen you cast the spell, you can make a melee spell attack against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. On a hit, the target takes force damage equal to  1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier.As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.The weapon can take whatever form you choose. Clerics of deities who are associated with a particular weapon (as St. Cuthbert is known for his mace and Thor for his hammer) make this spells effect resemble that weapon.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels above the 2nd.
Staggering  Smite;4;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack during this spells duration, your weapon pierces both body and mind, and the attack deals an extra 4d6 psychic damage to the target. The target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and cant take reactions, until the end of its next turn.
Stinking  Cloud;3;conjuration;-; 1  action;-;90 feet;V,S,M;(a rotten egg or several skunkcabbage leaves;1 minutes;-;You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating gas centered on a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lingers in the air for the duration.Each creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Creatures that dont need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw.A moderate wind (at least  10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after  1  round.
Stone Shape;4;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(soft clay, which must be workedinto roughly the desired shape of the stone object;instant;-;You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or a section of stone no m ore than 5 feet in any dimension and form it into any shape that suits your purpose. So, for example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, idol, or coffer, or make a small passage through a wall, as long as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. You could also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut. The object you create can have up to two hinges and a latch, but finer m echanical detail isnt possible.
Stoneskin;4;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(diamond dust worth  100 gp,which the spell consum es;1 hour;-;This spell turns the flesh of a willing creature you touch as hard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target has resistance to nonm agical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.
Storm  of Vengeance;9;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;sight;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;A churning storm  cloud forms, centered on a point you A churning storm  cloud forms, centered on a point you can see and spreading to a radius of 360 feet. Lightning flashes in the area, thunder boom s, and strong winds roar. Each creature under the cloud (no m ore than 5,000 feet beneath the cloud) when it appears must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d6 thunder damage and becom es deafened for 5 minutes.Each round you maintain concentration on this spell, the storm produces additional effects on your turn.Round 2. Acidic rain falls from the cloud.Each creature and object under the cloud takes 1d6 acid damage.Round 3. You call six bolts of lightning from  the cloud to strike six creatures or objects of your choice beneath the cloud. A given creature or object cant be struck by m ore than one bolt. A struck creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 10d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.Round 4. Hailstones rain down from  the cloud. Each creature under the cloud takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage.Round 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the area under the cloud. The area becom es difficult terrain and is heavily obscured. Each creature there takes  1d6 cold damage. Ranged weapon attacks in the area are im possible. The wind and rain count as a severe distraction for the purposes of maintaining concentration on spells. Finally, gusts of strong wind (ranging from 20 to 50 miles per hour) automatically disperse fog, mists, and similar phenom ena in the area, whether mundane or magical.
Suggestion;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,M;(a snakes tongue and either a bit ofhoneycom b or a drop o f sweet oil;concentration; up to 8 hours;You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influence a creature you can see within range that can hear and understand you. Creatures that cant be charm ed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be w orded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do som e other obviously harmful act ends the spell.The target must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, it pursues the course of action you described to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.You can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that a knight give her warhorse to the first beggar she meets. If the condition isnt met before the spell expires, the activity isnt performed.If you or any of your com panions damage the target, the spell ends.
Sunbeam;6;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S,M;(a magnifying glass;1 minutes;-;A  beam  of brilliant light flashes out from your hand A  beam  of brilliant light flashes out from your hand in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line. Each creature in the line must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 radiant damage and is blinded until your next turn. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isnt blinded by this spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.You can create a new line of radiance as your action on any turn until the spell ends.For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance shines in your hand. It sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. This light is sunlight.
Sunburst;8;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 150 feet;V,S,M;(fire and a piece of sunstone;instant;-;Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius centered Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius centered on a point you choose within range. Each creature in that light must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 radiant damage and is blinded for 1  minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isnt blinded by this spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.A creature blinded by this spell makes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.This spell dispels any darkness in its area that was created by a spell.
Swift  Quiver;5;transmutation;-;1 bonus action;-;touch;V,S,M;(a quiver containing at least onepiece of ammunition;1 minutes;-;You transmute your quiver so it produces an endless supply of nonm agical ammunition, which seem s to leap into your hand when you reach for it.On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action to make two attacks with a weapon that uses ammunition from the quiver. Each time you make such a ranged attack, your quiver magically replaces the piece of ammunition you used with a similar piece of nonm agical ammunition. Any pieces of ammunition created by this spell disintegrate when the spell ends. If the quiver leaves your possession, the spell ends.
Symbol;7;abjuration;-;1 minute;-;touch;V,S,M;(mercury, phosphorus, andpowdered diamond and opal with a total value of atleast  1,000 gp, which the spell consum es;Until dispelled or triggered;-;W hen you cast this spell, you inscribe a harmful glyph W hen you cast this spell, you inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface (such as a section of floor, a wall, or a table) or within an object that can be closed to conceal the glyph (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest).If you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place if the object is moved m ore than  10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.The glyph is nearly invisible, requiring an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to find it.You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph, removing another object covering it, approaching within a certain distance of it, or manipulating the object that holds it. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most com m on triggers are opening the object, approaching within a certain distance of it, or seeing or reading the glyph.You can further refine the trigger so the spell is activated only under certain circum stances or according to a creatures physical characteristics (such as height or weight), or physical kind (for example, the ward could be set to affect hags or shapechangers). You can also specify creatures that dont trigger the glyph, such as those who say a certain password.W hen you inscribe the glyph, choose one of the options below  for its effect. Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a 60-foot-radius sphere with dim light for  10 minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each creature in the sphere when the glyph activates is targeted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.Death. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d 10 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful save.Discord. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target bickers and argues with other creatures for 1  minute. During this time,it is incapable o f meaningful com m unication and has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.Fear. Each target must make a W isdom  saving throw and becom es frightened for 1  minute on a failed save. W hile frightened, the target drops whatever it is holding and must move at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its turns, if able.H opelessness. Each target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, the target is overwhelmed with despair for  1  minute. During this time, it cant attack or target any creature with harmful abilities, spells, or other magical effects.Insanity. Each target must make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the target is driven insane for1  minute. An insane creature cant take actions, cant understand what other creatures say, cant read, and speaks only in gibberish. The DM controls its movement, which is erratic.Pain. Each target must make a Constitution saving throw and becom es incapacitated with excruciating pain for  1  minute on a failed save.Sleep. Each target must make a W isdom  saving throw and falls unconscious for  10 minutes on a failed save. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if som eone uses an action to shake or slap it awake.Stunning.  Each target must make a W isdom  saving throw and becom es stunned for 1  minute on a failed save.
Tashas Hideous  Laughter;1;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(tiny tarts and a feather that iswaved in the air;1 minutes;-;A creature of your choice that you can see within range A creature of your choice that you can see within range perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or fall prone, becom ing incapacitated and unable to stand up for the duration. A creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or less isnt affected.At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another W isdom  saving throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw if its triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.
Telekinesis;5;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures You gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures or objects by thought. W hen you cast the spell, and as your action each round for the duration, you can exert your will on one creature or object that you can see within range, causing the appropriate effect below. You can affect the same target round after round, or choose a new one at any time. If you switch targets, the prior target is no longer affected by the spell.Creature. You can try to move a Huge or smaller creature. Make an ability check with your spellcasting ability contested by the creatures Strength check. If you win the contest, you move the creature up to 30 feet in any direction, including upward but not beyond the range of this spell. Until the end of your next turn, the creature is restrained in your telekinetic grip. A creature lifted upward is suspended in mid-air.On subsequent rounds, you can use your action to attempt to maintain your telekinetic grip on the creature by repeating the contest.Object. You can try to move an object that weighs up to  1,000 pounds. If the object isnt being worn or carried, you automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction, but not beyond the range of this spell.If the object is w orn or carried by a creature, you must make an ability check with your spellcasting ability contested by that creatures Strength check. If you succeed, you pull the object away from that creature and can move it up to 30 feet in any direction but not beyond the range of this spell.You can exert fine control on objects with your telekinetic grip, such as manipulating a simple tool, opening a door or a container, stowing or retrieving an item from an open container, or pouring the contents from a vial.
Telepathy;8;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;Unlimited;V,S,M;(a pair of linked silver rings;24 hours;-;You create a telepathic link between yourself and You create a telepathic link between yourself and a willing creature with which you are familiar. The creature can be anywhere on the same plane of existence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are no longer on the sam e plane.Until the spell ends, you and the target can instantaneously share words, images, sounds, and other sensory m essages with one another through the link, and the target recognizes you as the creature it is com m unicating with. The spell enables a creature with an Intelligence score of at least  1  to understand the meaning of your words and take in the scope of any sensory m essages you send to it.
Teleport;7;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 10 feet;V;-;instant;-;This spell instantly transports you and up to eight This spell instantly transports you and up to eight willing creatures of your choice that you can see within range, or a single object that you can see within range, to a destination you select. If you target an object, it must be able to fit entirely inside a  10-foot cube, and it cant be held or carried by an unwilling creature.The destination you choose must be known to you, and it must be on the same plane of existence asyou. Your familiarity with the destination determines whether you arrive there successfully. The DM rolls d 100 and consults the table.MishapFamiliarityPermanent circle Associated object Very familiarSeen casuallyViewed onceDescriptionFalse destination01-0501-3301-4301-4301-50O ffTargetSimilarArea06-1334-4344-5344-5351-100 14-2444-5354-7354-73OnTarget01-10001-10025-10054-10074-10074-100Familiarity.  “Permanent circle” means a permanent teleportation circle w hose sigil sequence you know. “Associated object” means that you possess an object taken from the desired destination within the last six months, such as a book from a wizards library, bed linen from a royal suite, or a chunk of marble from a lichs secret tomb.“Very familiar” is a place you have been very often, a place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see when you cast the spell. “Seen casually” is som eplace you have seen m ore than once but with which you arent very familiar. “Viewed once” is a place you have seen once, possibly using magic. “Description” is a place w hose location and appearance you know through som eone elses description, perhaps from a map.“False destination” is a place that doesnt exist. Perhaps you tried to scry an enemys sanctum but instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting to teleport to a familiar location that no longer exists.On Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear where you want to.O ff Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear a random distance away from  the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is  1d10 x 1d10 percent of the distance that was to be traveled.For example, if you tried to travel  120 miles, landed off target, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two d 10s, then you would be off target by 15 percent, or 18 miles. The DM determines the direction off target randomly by rolling a d8 and designating 1  as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as east, and so on around the points of the com pass. If you were teleporting to a coastal city and w ound up  18 m iles out at sea, you could be in trouble.Similar Area. You and your group (or the target object) wind up in a different area thats visually or thematically similar to the target area. If you are heading for your hom e laboratory, for example, you might wind up in another w izards laboratory or in an alchemical supply shop that has many of the same tools and implements as your laboratory. Generally, you appear in the closest similar place, but since the spell has no range limit, you could conceivably wind up anywhere on the plane.Mishap.  The spells unpredictable magic results in a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the target object) takes 3d10 force damage, and the DM rerolls onthe table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).
Teleportation  Circle;5;conjuration;-;1 minute;-; 10 feet;V,M;(rare chalks and inks infused withprecious gems with 50 gp, which the spell consum es;1 round;-;As you cast the spell, you draw a  10-foot-diameter As you cast the spell, you draw a  10-foot-diameter circle on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your location to a permanent teleportation circle of your choice w hose sigil sequence you know and that is on the sam e plane of existence as you. A shimmering portal opens within the circle you drew and remains open until the end of your next turn. Any creature that enters the portal instantly appears within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.Many major temples, guilds, and other important places have permanent teleportation circles inscribed som ewhere within their confines. Each such circle includes a unique sigil sequencea string of magical runes arranged in a particular pattern. W hen you first gain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations on the Material Plane, determined by the DM. You can learn additional sigil sequences during your adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to m em ory after studying it for  1 minute.You can create a permanent teleportation circle by casting this spell in the same location every day for one year. You need not use the circle to teleport when you cast the spell in this way.
Tensers Floating Disk;1;conjuration;True; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of mercury;1 hour;-;This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force,This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force,3  feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats 3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within range. The disk remains for the duration, and can hold up to 500 pounds. If m ore weight is placed on it, the spell ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.The disk is im m obile while you are within 20 feet of it. If you move m ore than 20 feet away from it, the disk follows you so that it remains within 20 feet of you. It can move across uneven terrain, up or down stairs, slopes and the like, but it cant cross an elevation change of 10 feet or more. For example, the disk cant move across a  10-foot-deep pit, nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the bottom.If you move m ore than  100 feet from the disk (typically because it cant move around an obstacle to follow you), the spell ends.
Thaumaturgy;0;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V;-;1 minutes;-;You manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural You manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural power, within range. You create one of the following magical effects within range:•  Your voice boom s up to three times as loud as normal •  You cause flames to flicker, brighten, dim, or change •  You cause harm less tremors in the ground for 1 for 1  minute.color for 1  minute.minute.•  You create an instantaneous sound that originates from a point of your choice within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry o f a raven, or om inous whispers.•  You instantaneously cause an unlocked door or w in­dow to fly open or slam shut.•  You alter the appearance of your eyes for 1  minute.If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its  1-minute effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.
Thorn Whip;0;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(the stem o f a plant with thorns;instant;-;You create a long, vine-like whip covered in thorns that You create a long, vine-like whip covered in thorns that lashes out at your com m and toward a creature in range. Make a melee spell attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes  1d6 piercing damage, and if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature up to  10 feet closer to you.This spells damage increases by 1d6 w hen you reach 5th level (2d6),  11th level (3d6), and  17th level (4d6).
Thunderous Smite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The first time you hit with a melee weapon attack The first time you hit with a melee weapon attack during this spells duration, your w eapon rings with thunder that is audible within 300 feet o f you, and the attack deals an extra 2d6 thunder damage to the target. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away from  you and knocked prone.
Thunderwave;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;instant;-;A wave of thunderous force sw eeps out from you. Each A wave of thunderous force sw eeps out from you. Each creature in a  15-foot cube originating from you must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from you. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isnt pushed.In addition, unsecured objects that are completely within the area of effect are automatically pushed 10 feet away from you by the spells effect, and the spell emits a thunderous boom  audible out to 300 feet.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above  1st.
Time  Stop;9;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;instant;-;You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while you take  1d4 + 1  turns in a row, during which you can use actions and move as normal.This spell ends if one of the actions you use during this period, or any effects that you create during this period, affects a creature other than you or an object being worn or carried by som eone other than you. In addition, the spell ends if you move to a place m ore than1,000 feet from the location where you cast it.
Tongues;3;divination;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,M;(a small clay m odel of a ziggurat;1 hour;-;This spell grants the creature you touch the ability to This spell grants the creature you touch the ability to understand any spoken language it hears. Moreover, when the target speaks, any creature that knows at least one language and can hear the target understands what it says.
Transport via Plants;6;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 10 feet;V,S;-;1 round;-;This spell creates a magical link between a Large or This spell creates a magical link between a Large or larger inanimate plant within range and another plant, at any distance, on the sam e plane of existence. You must have seen or touched the destination plant at least once before. For the duration, any creature can step into the target plant and exit from the destination plant by using 5 feet of movement.
Tree  Stride;5;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside it to inside another tree of the sam e kind within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at least the sam e size as you. You must use 5 feet of movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the location of all other trees o f the sam e kind within 500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step out o f the tree youre in. You appear in a spot of your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no movement left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.You can use this transportation ability once per round for the duration. You must end each turn outside a tree.
True  Strike;0;divination;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;S;-;1 round;-;You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in range. Your magic grants you a brief insight into thetargets defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage on your first attack roll against the target, provided that this spell hasnt ended.
True Polymorph;9;transmutation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a drop of mercury, a dollop ofgum arabic, and a wisp of smoke;1 hour;-;C hoose one creature or nonm agical object that you C hoose one creature or nonm agical object that you can see within range. You transform the creature into a different creature, the creature into an object, or the object into a creature (the object must be neither worn nor carried by another creature). The transformation lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. If you concentrate on this spell for the full duration, the transformation becom es permanent.Shapechangers arent affected by this spell. An unwilling creature can make a W isdom  saving throw, and if it succeeds, it isnt affected by this spell.Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into another kind of creature, the new form can be any kind you choose w hose challenge rating is equal to or less than the targets (or its level, if the target doesnt have a challenge rating). The targets game statistics, including mental ability scores, are replaced by the statistics of the new form. It retains its alignment and personality.The target assum es the hit points of its new form, and when it reverts to its normal form, the creature returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesnt reduce the creatures normal form to 0 hit points, it isnt knocked unconscious.The creature is limited in the actions it can perform  by the nature of its new form, and it cant speak, cast spells, or take any other action that requires hands or speech unless its new form is capable of such actions.The targets gear melds into the new form. The creature cant activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.Object into Creature. You can turn an object into any kind of creature, as long as the creatures size is no larger than the objects size and the creatures challenge rating is 9 or lower. The creature is friendly to you and your com panions. It acts on each of your turns. You decide what action it takes and how it moves. The DM has the creatures statistics and resolves all of its actions and movement.If the spell becom es permanent, you no longer control the creature. It might remain friendly to you, depending on how  you have treated it.Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into an object, it transforms along with whatever it is wearing and carrying into that form. The creatures statistics becom e those of the object, and the creature has no m em ory o f time spent in this form, after the spell ends and it returns to its normal form.
True Resurrection;9;necromancy;-;1 hour;-;touch;V,S,M;(a sprinkle of holy water anddiam onds worth at least 25,000 gp, which thespell consum es;instant;-;You touch a creature that has been dead for no longer You touch a creature that has been dead for no longer than 200 years and that died for any reason except old age. If the creatures soul is free and willing, the creature is restored to life with all its hit points.This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any poison, cures all diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell replaces damaged or m issing organs and limbs.The spell can even provide a new body if the original no longer exists, in which case you must speak the creatures name. The creature then appears in an unoccupied space you choose within  10 feet of you.
True Seeing;6;divination;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(an ointment for the eyes thatcosts 25 gp is made from m ushroom  powder, saffron,and fat and is consum ed by the spell;1 hour;-;This spell gives the willing creature you touch the ability This spell gives the willing creature you touch the ability to see things as they actually are. For the duration, the creature has truesight, notices secret doors hidden by magic, and can see into the Ethereal Plane, all out to a range of 120 feet.
Tsunami;8;conjuration;-;1 minute;-;sight;V,S;-;concentration; up to 6 rounds;A wall of water springs into existence at a point you A wall of water springs into existence at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 300 feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The wall lasts for the duration.W hen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d10 bludgeoning damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.At the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it, m oves 50 feet away from  you. Any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall or w hose space the wall enters when it m oves must succeed on a Strength saving throw or take 5 d10 bludgeoning damage. A creature can take this damage only once per round. At the end of the turn, the walls height is reduced by 50 feet, and the damage creatures take from the spell on subsequent rounds is reduced by 1d10. W hen the wall reaches 0 feet in height, the spell ends.A creature caught in the wall can move by swimming. Because of the force of the wave, though, the creature must make a successful Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC in order to move at all. If it fails the check, it cant move. A creature that m oves out of the area falls to the ground.
Unseen Servant;1;conjuration;True; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a piece of string anda bit of w ood;1 hour;-;This spell creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless This spell creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless force that perform s simple tasks at your com m and until the spell ends. The servant springs into existence in an unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC 10,  1  hit point, and a Strength of 2, and it cant attack. If it drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends.Once on each of your turns as a bonus action, you can mentally com m and the servant to move up to  15 feet and interact with an object. The servant can perform  simple tasks that a human servant could do, such as fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring wine. Once you give the com m and, the servant perform s the task to the best of its ability until it com pletes the task, then waits for your next command.If you com m and the servant to perform a task that would move it m ore than 60 feet away from you, the spell ends.
Vampiric Touch;3;necromancy;-; 1  action ;-;self;V,S;-;1 minutes;-;The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon life The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon life force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you regain hit points equal to half the amount of necrotic damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again on each of your turns as an action.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
Vicious  Mockery;0;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V;-;instant;-;You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle enchantments at a creature you can see within range. If the target can hear you (though it need not understand you), it must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or take 1d4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end o f its next turn.This spells damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4),  11th level (3d4), and  17th level (4d4).
Wall  of  Fire;4;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a small piece of phosphorus;1 minutes;-;You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and  1  foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and  1  foot thick. The wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5d8 fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.One side of the wall, selected by you when you cast this spell, deals 5d8 fire damage to each creature that ends its turn within  10 feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. The other side o f the wall deals no damage.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.
Wall  of  Stone;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a small block of granite;concentration; up to  10 minutes;A nonm agical wall of solid stone springs into existence A nonm agical wall of solid stone springs into existence at a point you choose within range. The wall is 6 inches thick and is com posed of ten  10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with at least one other panel. Alternatively, you can create  10-foot-by-20-foot panels that are only 3 inches thick.If the wall cuts through a creatures space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (your choice). If a creature would be surrounded on all sides by the wall (or the wall and another solid surface), that creature can make a Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use its reaction to move up to its speed so that it is no longer enclosed by the wall.The wall can have any shape you desire, though it cant occupy the same space as a creature or object.The wall doesnt need to be vertical or rest on any firm foundation. It must, however, merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. Thus, you can use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp.If you create a span greater than 20 feet in length, you must halve the size of each panel to create supports.You can crudely shape the wall to create crenellations, battlements, and so on.The wall is an object made of stone that can be damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC  15 and 30 hit points per inch of thickness. Reducing a panel to 0 hit points destroys it and might cause connected panels to collapse at the DM s discretion.If you maintain your concentration on this spell for its whole duration, the wall becom es permanent and cant be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disappears when the spell ends.
Wall of Force;5;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a pinch o f powder made bycrushing a clear gemstone;concentration; up to  10 minutes;An invisible wall of force springs into existence at a An invisible wall of force springs into existence at a point you choose within range. The wall appears in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a hemispherical dom e or a sphere with a radius of up to  10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up of ten  10-foot-by- 10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is  1/4 inch thick.It lasts for the duration. If the wall cuts through a creatures space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (your choice which side).Nothing can physically pass through the wall. It is immune to all damage and cant be dispelled by dispel magic. A disintegrate spell destroys the wall instantly, however. The wall also extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel through the wall.
Wall of Ice;6;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a small piece of quartz;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range. You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range. You can form it into a hemispherical dom e or a sphere with a radius o f up to  10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up of ten  10-foot-square panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is  1  foot thick and lasts for the duration.If the wall cuts through a creatures space when it appears, the creature within its area is pushed to one side of the wall and must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes  10d6 cold damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.The wall is an object that can be damaged and thus breached. It has AC  12 and 30 hit points per 10-foot section, and it is vulnerable to fire damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 hit points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid air in the space the wall occupied. A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air for the first time on a turn must make a Constitution saving throw. That creature takes 5d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage the wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6, and the damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air increases by 1d6, for each slot level above 6th.
Wall of Thorns;6;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a handful of thorns;concentration; up to  10 minutes;You create a wall of tough, pliable, tangled brush You create a wall of tough, pliable, tangled brush bristling with needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long,  10 feet high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot diameter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick. The wall blocks line of sight.W hen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 7d8 piercing damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.A creature can move through the wall, albeit slowly and painfully. For every 1  foot a creature m oves through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature enters the wall on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature mustmake a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 7d8 slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.A t Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, both types of damage increase by 1d8 for each slot level above 6th.
Warding Bond;2;abjuration;-; 1  action ;-;touch;V,S,M;(a pair of platinum rings worth atleast 50 gp each, which you and the target must wearfor the duration;1 hour;-;This spell wards a willing creature you touch and This spell wards a willing creature you touch and creates a mystic connection between you and the target until the spell ends. W hile the target is within 60 feet of you, it gains a +1  bonus to AC and saving throws, and it has resistance to all damage. Also, each time it takes damage, you take the sam e amount of damage.The spell ends if you drop to 0 hit points or if you and the target becom e separated by m ore than 60 feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either o f the connected creatures. You can also dismiss the spell as an action.
Water Breathing;3;transmutation;True; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a short reed or piece of straw;24 hours;-;This spell grants up to ten willing creatures you can see This spell grants up to ten willing creatures you can see within range the ability to breathe underwater until the spell ends. Affected creatures also retain their normal m ode of respiration.
Water Walk;3;transmutation;True; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a piece of cork;1 hour;-;This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid surfacesuch as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, or lavaas if it were harm less solid ground (creatures crossing molten lava can still take damage from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures you can see within range gain this ability for the duration.If you target a creature submerged in a liquid, the spell carries the target to the surface of the liquid at a rate of 60 feet per round.
Web;2;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S,M;(a bit o f spiderweb;1 hour;-;You conjure a m ass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of your choice within range. The w ebs fill a 20-foot cube from  that point for the duration. The w ebs are difficult terrain and lightly obscure their area.If the w ebs arent anchored between two solid m asses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. W ebs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.Each creature that starts its turn in the w ebs or that enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.A creature restrained by the w ebs can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer restrained.The w ebs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in  1  round, dealing 2d4 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.
Weird;9;illusion;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S;-;concentration; up to one minute;Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of creatures, Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of creatures, you create illusory creatures in their minds, visible only to them. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range must make a W isdom  saving throw. On a failed save, a creature becom es frightened for the duration. The illusion calls on the creatures deepest fears, manifesting its worst nightmares as an implacable threat. At the start of each of the frightened creatures turns, it must succeed on a W isdom  saving throw or take 4 d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.
Wind Walk;6;transmutation;-;1 minute;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(fire and holy water;8 hours;-;You and up to ten willing creatures you can see within range assume a gaseous form for the duration, appearing as w isps o f cloud. W hile in this cloud form, a creature has a flying speed of 300 feet and has resistance to damage from  nonm agical weapons. The only actions a creature can take in this form are the Dash action or to revert to its normal form. Reverting takes  1  minute, during which time a creature is incapacitated and cant move. Until the spell ends, a creature can revert to cloud form, which also requires the  1-minute transformation.If a creature is in cloud form and flying when the effect ends, the creature descends 60 feet per round for 1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it cant land after  1  minute, the creature falls the remaining distance.
Wind Wall;3;evocation;-; 1  action ;-; 120 feet;V,S,M;(a tiny fan and a feather ofexotic origin;1 minutes;-;A  wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point A  wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 50 feet long,  15 feet high, and  1  foot thick. You can shape the wall in any way you choose so long as it makes one continuous path along the ground. The wall lasts for the duration.W hen the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at bay. Sm all or smaller flying creatures or objects cant pass through the wall. Loose, lightweight materials brought into the wall fly upward. Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles launched at targets behind the wall are deflected upward and automatically miss. (Boulders hurled by giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are unaffected.) Creatures in gaseous form cant pass through it.
Wish;9;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;self;V;-;instant;-;Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal creature can Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal creature can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter the very foundations of reality in accord with your desires.The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other spell of 8th level or lower. You dont need to meet any requirements in that spell, including costly components. The spell simply takes effect.Alternatively, you can create one of the following effects of your choice:•  You create one object of up to 25,000 gp in value that isnt a m agic item. The object can be no m ore than300 feet in any dimension, and it appears in an unoc­cupied space you can see on the ground.•  You allow up to twenty creatures that you can see to regain all hit points, and you end all effects on them described in the greater restoration spell.•  You grant up to ten creatures that you can see resis­tance to a damage type you choose.•  You grant up to ten creatures you can see immunity to a single spell or other magical effect for 8 hours. For instance, you could make yourself and all your com ­panions immune to a lichs life drain attack.•  You undo a single recent event by forcing a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accom m odate the new result. For example, a wish spell could undo an opponents successful save, a foes critical hit, or a friends failed save. You can force the reroll to be made with advantage or disadvantage, and you can choose whether to use the reroll or the original roll.You might be able to achieve som ething beyond the scope o f the above examples. State your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in such an instance the greater the wish, the greater the likelihood that som ething goes wrong. This spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might only be partly achieved, or you might suffer som e unforeseen consequence as a result of how you worded the wish. For example, wishing that a villain w ere dead might propel you forward in time to a period when that villain is no longer alive, effectively removing you from the game. Similarly, wishing for a legendary magic item or artifact might instantly transport you to the presence of the items current owner.The stress of casting this spell to produce any effect other than duplicating another spell weakens you. After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell until you finish a long rest, you take 1d10 necrotic damage per level of that spell. This damage cant be reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your Strength drops to 3, if it isnt 3 or lower already, for 2d4 days. For each of those days that you spend resting and doing nothing m ore than light activity, your remaining recovery time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percent chance that you are unable to cast wish ever again if you suffer this stress.
Witch Bolt;1;evocation;-; 1  action ;-;30 feet;V,S,M;(a twig from a tree that has beenstruck by lightning;1 minutes;-;A beam  of crackling, blue energy lances out toward A beam  of crackling, blue energy lances out toward a creature within range, form ing a sustained arc of lightning between you and the target. Make a ranged spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the target takes  1d12 lightning damage, and on each of your turns for the duration, you can use your action to deal  1d12 lightning damage to the target automatically. The spell ends if you use your action to do anything else. The spellalso ends if the target is ever outside the spells range or if it has total cover from you.At Higher Levels. W hen you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above  1st.
Word of Recall;6;conjuration;-; 1  action ;-;5 feet;V;-;instant;-;You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you instantly teleport to a previously designated sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the spot you designated when you prepared your sanctuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect.You must designate a sanctuary by casting this spell within a location, such as a temple, dedicated to or strongly linked to your deity. If you attempt to cast the spell in this manner in an area that isnt dedicated to your deity, the spell has no effect.
Wrathful Smite;1;evocation;-;1 bonus action;-;self;V;-;1 minutes;-;The next time you hit with a melee w eapon attack The next time you hit with a melee w eapon attack during this spells duration, your attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must make a W isdom  saving throw or be frightened of you until the spell ends. As an action, the creature can make a W isdom  check against your spell save DC to steel its resolve and end this spell.
Zone of Truth;2;enchantment;-; 1  action ;-;60 feet;V,S;-;10 minutes;-;You create a m agical zone that guards against deception You create a m agical zone that guards against deception in a  15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point o f your choice within range. Until the spell ends, a creature that enters the spells area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature cant speak a deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether each creature succeeds or fails on its saving throw.An affected creature is aware o f the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be evasive in its answers as long as it remains within the boundaries of the truth.
